---
layout: post
title: Work Together, Play Together, Excel Together
date: 2018-06-12 00:02:0
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/lifeatcisco/work-together-play-together-excel-together
tags: [Group]
---
tttWhat do a wild bunch of Cisconians with a passion for the written word, a wicked sense of humor, and a singular focus on customer experience all have in common? For starters, you get ten Cisco employees who are part of the Security Business Group Technical Publications team in Bangalore India. The Security Business Group Technical Publications team authors and publishes a wide variety of end-user documentation that helps our users setup and work with Cisco Firewall products and our Email and Web Security products.Our team is a diverse bunch – with tenures at Cisco ranging from six months to eight years – and we subscribe to the Cisco ideals of mutual respect, integrity, innovation, and courage.Our weekly meetings are usually effervescent, exciting interactions with ideas that keep bouncing off the walls of Andaman – our meeting room in the Bangalore office. We are encouraged to ideate and think boldly, even at the risk of failure. Because failure as we all know is just a stepping stone to success. We all understand that this is a core culture concept here at Cisco.In our meetings, routine work discussions apart, we leverage ideas from the newer members, and seasoned writers alike; we share best practices by going through trainings individually and collectively, and we are constantly looking at what the competition is doing and how to outrun them. We also take the time to discuss mindfulness, meditation, yoga, and exercise – and how they all can influence our productivity at work.Because we work together and play together – it follows, that we excel together.What have these three events helped us to accomplish? Our strategizing at the offsite has helped us to In addition to our assigned responsibilities, each of us is working on an innovation idea that will improve our customer experience. Several of our ideas have found executive level backing and we feel empowered by Cisco’s faith in us!Cisco’s value system emphasizes People, Relationships and Trust. We, in the Security Technical Publications Team have simply adopted this principle and are clearly excelling as a team by working together and playing together.Want to be part of the team? We’re hiring. We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 