---
layout: post
title: ?Inside a VPN service: How NordVPN conducts the business of Internet privacy
date: 2018-06-29 00:02:2
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/inside-a-vpn-service-how-nordvpn-conducts-the-business-of-internet-privacy/
tags: [Net,attack]
---
 A virtual private network enables users to send and receive data while remaining anonymous and secure online. In this directory, we look at a few of the very best commercial VPN service providers on the Internet.With the demise of net neutrality protections, I've been digging deep into many of We caught up with Marty P. Kamden, CMO of NordVPN: The Panama is a bit of a different story. We knew that, above everything else, privacy would be our primary focus; therefore, we needed to find a privacy-friendly location to start our service from, and Panama was a perfect fit. The country doesn't have mandatory data retention laws, does not participate in the In order for someone to use our service, we require an active email address, and we need to have access to the billing information, as it is necessary to manage subscriptions and refunds. Other than that, our apps collect anonymous aggregated usage statistics to improve our customer experience, and that's about it.There has never been a case of any government demanding the full list of our customers. It's hard to imagine reasonable grounds for such demand. We are obliged to answer by the laws we operate under, but even if a Panamanian court order were issued, we could only confirm whether a particular email address was used to purchase our service. Because of our no-logs policy and server configuration, information on individual customer's internet activity cannot be retained.For this particular purpose, That being said, the VPN market is almost entirely based on trust -- people make their purchase decisions based on the reputation of the service. We worked hard to become one of the market leaders. Going against our privacy policy, storing or recording anything would put our service in danger and eradicate everything we've worked so hard to achieve, so we will never take that risk. We are confident about our policies and configuration and will gladly provide our service to those who seek protection.We rent dedicated, bare-metal servers from carefully selected server providers with the condition to configure them all by ourselves. We install OS and set everything up in a way that no data is being stored or recorded.We don't have dedicated communication lines -- no consumer VPN does. All traffic between a user and a VPN server is encrypted anyway, and even if intercepted, wouldn't be any use.Our mobile apps are translated into In order to get a full view of subject in question, let's split the case into two separate parts: One will cover the methodology on how we deploy our servers; another will cover the VPN as a service itself.The first one is actually quite simple. We always use the same approach. We reach out to a server provider and state our requirements. If the server provider is fine with what we need, we rent the server and start with the configuration. The drill is always the same regardless of the country, its laws or attitude towards the VPN services. From the security perspective, our users will be provided with the same benefits whether the server they connect to is located in Switzerland, the US, or UAE. Choosing the preferred one is all up to them.Meanwhile, the VPN service and its use is subjective to the customer. NordVPN itself operates and answers by the laws of Panama. We do believe in free and unrestricted internet to anyone and if the technology we provide works in countries under the We do provide a Therefore, linking specific internet activity to a specific IP address becomes very complicated. And to eliminate even the slightest possibility of a correlation attack, we provide Double VPN servers. If a customer connects to a Users should be aware of the protocols that are known to be insecure. Moreover, the same protocol can use different ciphers, so it is something worth checking as well. For example, the OpenVPN protocol, amongst others, can use AES-256bit - CBC encryption or AES-BLOWFISH, which is known to be vulnerable to certain attacks.We do not recommend using the PPTP or L2TP protocols to transfer any sensitive data as these are known as unsafe to use.To conclude, there are lots of different VPN protocols as well as cipher suites, each having their pros and cons. Our apps use protocols that have been approved for encryption of top secret documents by governments from all over the world.Let's start by saying that the encryption we use has never been broken, and with the current technology brute-forcing it would be next to impossible. Moreover, we hire highly trained specialists and regularly checking for any possible Yes, no one is protected from zero-day vulnerabilities. However, our specialists follow the latest industry standards and working hard ensure that the top level security practices are being used.Looking from a global scale, we provide a cyber-security service. Our user polls show, that more than 80 percent of our customers are using NordVPN to protect themselves from cyber threats and privacy violations. Others -- to bypass censorship and restrictions. With an additional features like CyberSec or SmartPlay, we have become an all around security suite that can be compared with an ISP. Unfortunately, every ISP is providing service to all different kinds of people.As I have mentioned before, our service doesn't maintain any logs of our customers' activity. That means that even if an official court order were issued and we were asked to give out any information on our customers, there would be nothing to provide. We could only confirm or deny the fact of the existence of such email address in our database.Our business service features include centralized billing, user administration, dedicated account manager, priority support 24/7, license transferability option, dedicated IP per user or per group, dedicated VPN server deployment, and other features. Small and medium businesses quite often lack infrastructural know-how and use outdated or insecure protocols, which leads to system security holes. Meanwhile, we can provide companies with a top-level serviceIt can be difficult to access your home Internet services and resources when you travel out of the country. Here are six ways a virtual private network can help.A virtual private network can go a long way to make sure that neither your ISP, nor anyone else, can snoop on what you do on the internet.Russia has some very restrictive cybersecurity laws, especially when it comes to VPN use. Here's what you need to know to avoid trouble.If you're considering traveling to one of the many countries that has a dubious relationship with digital privacy, you'll need to protect yourself. While the standard advice is a VPN, David Gewirtz takes you a few steps deeper into the murky cloak and dagger world of digital tradecraft.