---
layout: post
title: Whoops! Has LifeLock been unlocked?
date: 2018-07-27 01:02:12
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/whoops-has-lifelock-been-unlocked/
tags: [Attack,TLS]
---
 tTake these simple steps to help protect yourself against hackers and government surveillance. t tBut what iftGuess what, kids? LifeLock may not be that secure after all. t tSecurity expert Brian Krebs reported on the problem on his must-read security blog,tHow? By having a vulnerability "on its site that allowed anyone with a Web browser to index email addresses associated with millions of customer accounts, or to unsubscribe users from all communications from the company." tKrebs didn't discover this security. The credit goes to Nathan Reese, a freelance security researcher and former LifeLock subscriber. Reese found that clicking the "unsubscribe" link at the bottom of a LifeLock email brought up a page showing his subscriber key. Using that as a starting point, Reese wrote a proof-of-concept script that used key numbers to pull down user email addresses. tArmed with those, Reese observed, "If I were a bad guy, I would definitely target your customers with a phishing attack because I know two things about them. That they're a LifeLock customer and that I have those customers' email addresses. That's a pretty sharp spear for my spear phishing right there." t t t tThat would be, because, no one else had used that security hole yet. As an excuse, it doesn't cut it. It's nice that the brakes were fixed before there was an accident, but for some time, LifeLock had partnered with a company that didn't provide any security brakes. tThe site, while ran by a third party, also certainly appears to be an official LifeLock site. In addition, several eagle-eyed commenters noticed from the LifeLock screenshots that the siteseems to have a misconfigured Transport Layer Security (TLS) certificate t tOthers saw the site appears to have not been updated since 2015. Has this hole been there for three years? Maybe. Some people might say that, since there was no harm, there was no foul, and that there's really no security news here. tWrong. As Krebs said in a follow-up note, "It's newsworthy because a company like this shouldn't be making such Internet Security 101 mistakes, and the fact that they did in this case raises legitimate questions about whether they take user account security seriously." tExactly. tI can only add that the LifeLock business plan's reason to exist is to protect your identity. If it fails on something as fundamental as this, you really must ask: "How safe is it?"