---
layout: post
title: Now it’s even easier to be Master Specialized
date: 2018-07-10 00:02:10
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/partner/now-its-even-easier-to-be-master-specialized
tags: [Group]
---
tttAligning to today’s digital climate means that we must change the way we approach our customers. We are thinking differently about how we address their needs. According to Garner, worldwide IT spending is forecasted to reach $3.7 trillion this year.This growth in the line-of-businesses (LOB) spend is your opportunity to become your customers trusted advisor. Now is the time to show your customers your expertise. And we are here to help.In the past, the Master Specializations focused on sales and technical skills; not on your business. With the market changing rapidly, we know you need to be more than just another vendor. You need to become your customers trusted advisor.We’re thrilled to let you know the new and revitalized Master Specializations is now available to you! When you become a Master Specialized partner, you’ll have the competitive edge to gain greater profitability. Through the rest of this year, we will be making a big effort to promote the success of our Master Specialized partners and their customer wins in several ways. Some of the ways we’ll do this is through video testimonials of partners sharing their story, exclusive stories with CRN, an ongoing blog series, and more. This is a great time to be a Master Specialized partner!If you are applying to be Masters specialized for the first time, we’ve made it easier for you to realize the benefits of this level of specialization. And if you’re looking to renew, we’re providing you with more flexibility by offering two paths: earn points for completing activities you’re already doing to grow your sales, or complete the audit process.The points are cumulative throughout the year. If you earn the required amount of points needed by your renewal date, you’re automatically be renewed! And we’ve made it easy to earn points through activities such as giving demos, developing customer case studies, conducting trainings, and more.We know the demands of today’s digital marketplace on your business; the last thing you need is to spend a lot of time and resources preparing for audits. So, we changed the process—giving you more time to focus on your key business activities and building new recurring revenue streams.  .When you have one or more Master Specializations, you are part of an elite group of partners. Not only that, you open the doors to increased benefits, such as the most prominent position in our Partner Locator search results, ability to earn extra incentives, gain priority access to our technical and sales teams, and much more. Your customers will know we recognize you as an expert in the marketplace.Learn more about our We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 