---
layout: post
title: Inspiring those “a-ha” moments with digital learning
date: 2018-06-20 00:02:1
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/education/inspiring-those-a-ha-moments-with-digital-learning
tags: [Page]
---
tttLocated in suburban Johnson County, Kansas (and just ten miles from Kansas City, Missouri), Shawnee Mission School District is the third largest school district in the state, with 33 elementary schools, five middle schools, five high schools, and one alternative high school, which combine to serve nearly 28,000 students. Most significantly, the district is home to more than 3000 imaginative, talented educators and staff, who with their students are using innovative collaboration technology to open a Â“window to the world.Â”Fifth-grade students at Shawnee Mission School District engage with course content, and with Ms. Jessee, using Cisco Webex.Â“We have to see how they learn best, and for these kids, itÂ’s digital technology. If I push out a document in a [Webex] Meeting space, then I know itÂ’s on every kidÂ’s iPad. I know that everybodyÂ’s on page 11 with me,Â” says Amanda Jessee, fifth-grade teacher at Westwood View Elementary School.Â“We want to provide students the opportunities they need to be the people they want to be. The Webex tools that we use provide them chances to see things that maybe they wouldnÂ’t see otherwise,Â” says Drew Lane, executive director of Information and Communication Technologies at Shawnee Mission School District. Â“If youÂ’re an educator, itÂ’s watching those Â‘lightbulbsÂ’ go on. That never goes away. We teach them to build, we teach them to learn, we teach them to build their own futures.Â”Teachers note that the use of Webex in the classroom has truly transformed the way they and their students engage. Gone are the days when students looked only to their teacher for the answer, says Westwood View Elementary School fifth-grade teacher Angela Harris. Â“Now, theyÂ’re talking to each other, theyÂ’re building on each otherÂ’s ideas, and itÂ’s kind of magical to watch them do that,Â” she adds. Â“I think thatÂ’s why most teachers are teachers: we want that Â‘aha!Â’ moment, and this gives us the opportunity to see it. You can really connect with kids in a way that is not [just about] 7:50 to 3:30.Â”Â“ShrinkingÂ” a district that spans 100 square miles, administrators and educators can also take advantage of Cisco Webex to connect with each other.Or, for more ideas about using collaboration technology in the classroom, We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 