title:Hacker Makes Over $18 Million in Double-Spend Attack on Bitcoin Gold Network
date:2018-05-24 09:26:05
tourl:https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/hacker-makes-over-18-million-in-double-spend-attack-on-bitcoin-gold-network/
tags:[attack]
Hackers have come up with a never-before-seen method of installing backdoored plugins on websites running the open-source WordPress CMS, and this new technique relies on using weakly protected WordPress.com accounts and the Jetpack plugin. The technique is highly complex, and to compromise a site, a hacker must go through different steps, during which multiple things can prevent the attack from being successful. Nevertheless, attacks have been happening since May 16, according to The first step of this attack consists of hackers taking usernames and passwords from public breaches and attempting to log into WordPress.com accounts. Users who reused passwords across accounts and who did not enable two-factor authentication for their profiles are susceptible to these account take-over attempts. To be clear, WordPress.com accounts are used to manage professional blogs hosted by Automattic, and are different from both WordPress.org accounts and admin accounts for self-hosted WordPress sites that based on the open-source CMS. While the WordPress open-source CMS is managed by the WordPress community, lots of Automattic developers contribute to the open-source project and have always had a big influence and close ties to the open-source CMS. This is why, a few years back, Automattic took the analytics plugin used on WordPress.com and released it as an open-source plugin for self-hosted WordPress sites. In time, this analytics module —named One of the plugin's features is the ability to connect self-hosted WordPress sites to a WordPress.com account and use the Jetpack panel inside the WordPress.com dashboard to manage tens or thousands of self-hosted WordPress sites via the Jetpack plugin installed on each site. One of the options Jetpack provides is the ability to install plugins across different sites from the WordPress.com Jetpack dashboard. The plugin doesn't even have to be hosted or hidden on the official WordPress.org repository, and attackers can easily upload a ZIP file with the malicious code that then gets sent to each site. According to Wordfence, hackers who've been taking over WordPress.com accounts and finding linked WordPress self-hosted sites have been abusing this remote management feature to deploy backdoored plugins across previously secured sites. Experts say that attacks started on May 16, with the hackers deploying a plugin named \"pluginsamonsters,\" later switching to another plugin named \"wpsmilepack\" on May 21. The number of compromised sites is unknown, and detecting compromised sites is also difficult. \"The plugin is visible on the WordPress.com dashboard but is invisible on the target WordPress site's plugin list when active,\" the Wordfence team said. For now, hackers have been using these backdoors to redirect users to spam and tech support scams. Owners of self-hosted sites that have connected their Jetpack plugin with a WordPress.com account are encouraged to review the plugins they have deployed across self-hosted sites inside the WordPress.com dashboard. If they find suspicious plugins, they should immediately change their WordPress.com account password, enable two-factor authentication for the account, and initiate site-cleaning procedures. Wordfence said that the threat actor behind this new site hijacking technique has targeted self-hosted WordPress sites before. In February of this year, they used a technique called \"credential stuffing\" —using leaked username  password combos— in attempts to guess the credentials of admin accounts and hijacked WordPress self-hosted sites directly at the source. A hacker found a way around a previous patch in the Verge cryptocurrency source code and took advantage of the flaw to monopolize mining operations and create Verge coins (XVG) at a rapid pace. The attack took place on Tuesday, May 22 [Users who looked into the attack's aftermath believe the hacker mined over 35 million XVG coins in just a few hours for a profit of $1.65 million. The incident is eerily similar to another attack that took place Following the April attack, the Verge development team hard-forked the entire cryptocurrency's source code to patch the flaw exploited by the attacker and reverse his gains. But according to several users knowledgeable of the Verge source code, the attacker found a way around the hard-fork's patch and launched a similar attack. \"Since nothing really was done about the previous attacks (only a band-aid), the attackers now simply use two algos to fork the chain for their own use and are gaining millions,\" The Verge dev team didn't appear to recognize the attack, in the beginning, calling it a DDoS on mining pools. it appears some mining pools are under ddos attack, and we are experiencing a delay in our blocks, we are working to resolve this. — vergecurrency (@vergecurrency) Nonetheless, once it became clear what was going on, developers started working on a patch once more. It is unclear if the Verge team plans to hard-fork the cryptocurrency's source code to reverse the effects of the illegal mining like it did in April. Small update about the 51% attack today. Developer is working on a patch. But something more awsome to look forward to is we will have a complete new codebase soon!!Just like in April, no XVG coins were stolen from users' accounts, but the attack did invalidate legitimate mining operations and crashed Verge's price by 10% due to news about the attack and the creation of a large pot of new coins. An unidentified hacker has mounted several \"double spend\" attacks on the infrastructure of the Bitcoin Gold cryptocurrency and has managed to amass over $18 million worth of BTG (Bitcoin Gold) coins in the process. According to a The attacker has been deploying a large number of servers to take control of more than half of the Bitcoin Gold's network hashrate in what's known as a \"51% attack.\" This grants the attacker the ability to modify details of blockchain transactions, an ability he's been using in the last few days to perform a second attack called \"double spend,\" which as the name implies, allows him to spend the same amount of coins twice. According to the Bitcoin Gold team, this attacker has been using this combination of a 51% and double-spend attack to defraud cryptocurrency exchange services. \"The cost of mounting an ongoing attack is high. Because the cost is high, the attacker can only profit if they can quickly get something of high value from a fake deposit,\" the Bitcoin Gold team explained. \"A party like an Exchange may accept large deposits automatically, allow the user to trade into a different coin quickly, and then withdraw automatically. This is why they are targeting Exchanges.\" For the last few days, the attacker has been doing just this. He's been depositing large amounts of BTG coins at exchanges, but also sending the same funds to his own wallet. By the time exchanges realize the blockchain has been tampered with and that the transaction is invalid, the hacker has already withdrawn funds from the exchange and doubled his original funds. To counteract attacks, exchanges have been raising the threshold needed to confirm a BTG transaction in the past few days, but the hacker has continued to deploy more and more mining power to take over more than half of the Bitcoin Gold network and carry out the double-spend attack anyway. The Bitcoin Gold team says it tracked the funds stolen from exchanges to a BTG address located at More than 388,000 BTG coins have passed through this account, suggesting the hacker has made over $18 million from his attacks. To be clear, the hacker hasn't been stealing money from users, but from the exchanges. While no user has lost money, the attacks are still dangerous because they might destabilize an exchange's backup funds, or may lead to its insolvency, which in turn may prevent users from withdrawing funds. Users may not be losing money right now, but if the attacks continue, some exchanges may go bankrupt and won't be able to refund users still keeping funds with the exchange. According to one of the exchange portals who collaborated with the Bitcoin Gold team to get to the bottom of these attacks, they also believe the person/group behind this past week's events has also attempted the same attack on the original Bitcoin network in the past. Bitcoin Gold is a very popular cryptocurrency created by forking the original Bitcoin currency in November 2017, currently ranked #27 based on total market cap. 