---
layout: post
title: My Health Record opt-outs will not sink system: Turnbull
date: 2018-07-20 01:02:12
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/my-health-record-opt-outs-will-not-sink-system-turnbull/
tags: [Law]
---
 t tAustralian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull has saidt tA My Health Record will be set up for every Australian unless they opt out by October 15, with thousands withdrawing amid security concerns. t t"It doesn't need to have a particular number of people in it," the prime minister told Tasmanian radio station LAFM on Friday. t tTurnbull said the system is secure, likening it to storing information digitally rather than in a filing cabinet within a doctor's surgery, but that people are free to opt out. t t"It is very much a matter for individuals," he said. t tThe prime minister is familiar with the potential for security breaches due to the use of filing cabinets, after his department lost a cabinett tAfter the first day of the opt-out period, 20,000 had already chosen to not have a digital health record. t tDespite the legislation behind My Health Record allowing enforcement bodies to access health records to prevent criminal offences, as well as for revenue-raising purposes, the Australian Digital Health Agency has been claiming it will only give access under a court order. t tA number of users have reported high waiting times on the opt-out phone line, whicht t"There have been some human error issues, with consumers not having the right information to correctly opt out which has slowed down the process for some people. In these instances, people are encouraged to call the My Health Record call centre on 1800 723 471," an ADHA spokesperson told ZDNet on Tuesday evening. t tDuring the million-person trial of My Health Record,t t tWhen citizens rush to opt out of an Australian government service, it says something about their levels of trust. When the system falls over under heavy load, it proves them right. t tCall waiting times have been reduced, says the digital health record operator, and a spokesperson for the human services minister says systems were not overloaded. t tThe ADHA says it'll refuse access to medical records without a court order or warrant. But the law allows that policy to change at any time. t tPerhaps more worryingly, the use of privacy controls is sitting under the 0.1 percent mark. t tThe Australian government's My Health Record data use guidelines require the data governance board to make case-by-case decisions on how the data can be used.