title:FBI: Cybercrime Losses Drop as Ransomware Reporting Falls Sharply
date:2018-05-09 09:45:34
tourl:https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com:443/news/cybercrime-losses-drop-ransomware/
tags:[law,attack,DNS,DHS]
Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Shortly after    The reported deduction differs significantly from the findings of    In stark contrast to the LSOC findings, Corero noticed a spike in distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks around 17 April but said, “Since then, European attacks have remained higher in the second half of the month versus the first half of April and the year as a whole.”  The news that law enforcement agencies had closed down Webstresser.org was a big win for cybercrime fighters. \"But even so, the number of attacks will only decrease temporarily,\" said Onur Cengiz, head of the Link11 security operation center. \"Experience has shown in recent years that for every DDoS attack marketplace taken out, multiple new platforms will pop up like the heads of a hydra.\"  A    According to the Kaspersky Lab DDoS report, Q1 revealed an increased number of DDoS attacks and targets, but there are distinctions among the different attack methods. “Amplified” attacks were beginning to wane but had a bit of a boost in momentum, while network time protocol (NTP) and DNS-based boosting had almost disappeared after most vulnerable services were patched.     DDoS attacks as a means of personal revenge grew more popular in Q1 2018. Also trending were Memcached attacks that resemble a typical DDoS attack; however, according to the Kaspersky report, “Cybercriminals will likely seek out other non-standard amplification methods besides Memcached.”     As server owners patch vulnerabilities, there will be dips in certain types of attacks. “That being the case, DDoS masterminds will likely seek out other amplification methods, one of which could be LDAP services,” the Kaspersky report authors wrote.       \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                  \tTechnology and science in the medical industry was a major focus in the Australian government's 2018-19 Budget, with the government providing AU$106.8 million over four years to modernise Medicare's IT systems.  \tThe funding will also be used to upgrade the systems across the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, aged care, and related payments.  \t\"This measure includes funding for replacing and decommissioning ageing ICT systems, upgrading cybersecurity, and introducing user experience improvements for consumers and providers of health and aged care services,\" the Budget documents said.  \tThe government is also providing AU$28.2 million over five years to upgrade the software system being used to prescribe medicines.  \t\"This measure supports a national electronic prescribing system that will contribute to Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme efficiency, compliance, drug safety, and data collection,\" the government explained.         \t\"The upgrades will make the system more user-friendly and enable prescribers to better identify prescribing options that best meet the needs of their patients, with doctors to retain the final say in advising patients on which medicines to use.\"  \tUnder Improving Access to Medicines: E-prescribing for safer medicines, the Department of Health will get AU$13.7 million in 2018-19, AU$2.8 million in 2019-20, and AU$400,000 in 2020-21; while the Department of Human Services (DHS) gets AU$1.7 million in 2018-19, AU$4.3 million in 2019-20, AU$600,000 in 2020-21, and AU$600,000 in 2021-22.        \tThe government's new 21st Century Medical Industry Growth Plan also gained AU$1.3 billion in funding under the Budget unveiled on Tuesday.  \t\"Tonight we announce a new 21st century medical industry plan to create more jobs in this fast-growing sector of our economy,\" Australian Treasurer Scott Morrison said in his Budget speech.  \t\"Our plan will provide more support for medical research projects, new diagnostic tools, clinical trials of new drugs, scientific collaboration, and development of new medical technologies that can be sold overseas.\"  \tThe plan will ensure Australia is a \"global health industry leader in medical technology, biotechnology, and pharmaceuticals while improving health outcomes for all Australians through investments in medical innovation\", the Budget documents stated.  \tThe funding for the plan was divided into AU$500 million over 10 years for the Genomics Health Futures Mission and AU$707 million to support the Frontier Health and Medical Research program, clinical trials, Biomedtech programs, and Industry Researcher Collaborations.  \tUnder the plan, the government is also looking to spend AU$30 million on enhancing the data sharing and release capabilities of the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare.  \tThe government had also used the 2018-19 Budget to outline its  \tUnder Delivering Australia's Digital Future: Data sharing and release arrangements, AU$20.5 million over four years will be provided to establish a new framework for data sharing in response to the recommendations for an  \tThe framework will be underpinned by legislation and administered by a newly created National Data Commissioner (NDC), with technical guidance and support to be provided by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) to federal agencies on best practices for de-identifying data prior to release.  \t\"A National Data Commissioner will implement and oversee a simpler, safer, and more efficient government data use framework. The National Data Commissioner will be the trusted overseer of the Government data system, responsible for proactively monitoring the integrity of the system and engaging with the community,\" the Budget papers said.  \t\"The NDC will be responsible for developing guidance on data sharing arrangements; monitoring and addressing risks and ethical considerations on data use; and managing the process for high-value datasets.\"  It’s finally time for the federal government to submit a proposal for raising Russia’s retirement age, acting Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev told the State Duma on Tuesday, pointing out that the country’s current system was established in the 1930s. “Life in this country has changed substantially since then, of course for the better,” Medvedev Today, men in Russia can receive state pensions at 60 and women can retire at 55. Despite repeated warnings from state officials over the years that the country’s current pension program is unsustainable, the government has refused to entertain the idea of raising the retirement age. Beginning last year, the government started gradually increasing the pension age for civil servants and the minimum amount of employee tenure needed to claim a pension.                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 At    CSIT, the UK’s lead university center for commercialization of cybersecurity research, is housed at Queen’s University’s Institute of Electronics, Communications and Information Technology, and was recently selected by the    The announced jobs range from graduate level to principal engineer, and will focus on creating industry-viable products to reduce cyber-attacks and make networks more resilient.     Speaking at the event, director of CSIT Dr Godfrey Gaston said: “The cybersecurity industry in Northern Ireland is growing rapidly and we are pleased to be recruiting 10 new research and engineering staff, who will make a positive impact across the globe, ensuring that networks are more resilient and less likely to be attacked. It is also a welcome boost for the local economy in Northern Ireland.     “At CSIT, our experts work closely with many high profile partners to shape and direct the research agenda and ensure that there is strong commercial and societal impact. With graduate level jobs to principal engineer, we are helping to develop the next generation of industry leaders to address the widespread demand for cybersecurity professionals and technologies.” \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 UK small businesses are up to 20 times more likely to suffer damaging data breaches than their larger counterparts, according to new data from   The dark web intelligence firm crawls the non-indexed web searching for customers’ data, and in so doing identifies when sensitive information has been stolen and put up for sale.     It found 5-20 times the number of breaches coming from smaller firms, although they are often not publicized because of the lower profile of these organizations, the vendor claimed.     “Smaller companies make easier targets because they don't have the resources to effectively defend themselves. Most attacks are automated, so it makes little difference to an attacker if they steal 1,000 personal data records from 100 smaller companies, or if they steal 100,000 personal data records from one company,” explained Terbium Labs CEO, Danny Rogers.     “UK small and medium sized businesses just don't have the volume to absorb a big data breach event, and it can cause so much damage that entire businesses can be destroyed. At the same time, these organizations have far fewer resources, not to mention much more limited data sets, to combat the problem. Currently, they’re sitting ducks.”     Nearly half (47%) of small businesses have experienced a breach or cyber-attack in the past 12 months, according to    Although spending on cybersecurity is higher as a percentage of total spend than other sized companies (33%), just 31% of micro-businesses and 39% of small firms said they have dedicated staff to deal with attacks, according to the government. This is versus 62% of medium and 76% of large businesses.     What’s more, just 39% of small businesses have formal security policies in place, versus 59% of medium and 74% of large firms.     According to the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB), Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Total reported cybercrime losses dropped slightly last year to just over $1.4bn, with ransomware reports falling sharply, according to the latest annual stats from the   The IC3 “People are losing their confidence in government and law enforcement agencies to protect them from cyber-criminals,” argued    However   The top money-earner from 2017 was BEC, netting the black hats over $675m from 15,690 complaints, an average pay-out of over $43,000 per attack.     The next most lucrative attack types of 2017 were confidence/romance fraud ($211m) and non-payment/non delivery ($141m).     The latter also topped the top three most popular attacks, with the FBI receiving over 84,000 complaints last year, followed by personal data breaches (30,904) and phishing (25,344).        Perhaps unsurprisingly, the over 60s represent the most frequently targeted age group (49,523) and those suffering the biggest cumulative losses ($343m).     Outside the US, the top victim countries were Canada (3164 cases), India (2819) and the UK (1383).    \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 