---
layout: post
title: Cisco Gears up for ANGA COM 2018
date: 2018-06-07 00:02:1
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/sp/ciscogearsupforangacom2018
tags: [New Service]
---
tttThe big topics this year include content delivery and OTT, big data, TV strategies, the Internet of Things and Industry 4.0, smart homes, the Gigabit society, future-proofed fibre and FTTH, migration from analog to digital, cloud services and network virtualization, DOCSIS 3.1 and DAA, next-generation multiscreen platforms, and much more besides—all subjects that keep us busy on a daily basis!Our own theme for 2018 also provides a pretty succinct summary of the essential characteristics for next-generation networks: ““Automated,” because network operators will not be able to manage their infrastructures in a cost-efficient way without increased levels of automation. “Intelligent,” to reflect the huge advances made with DOCSIS 3.1, Remote PHY Distributed Access Architecture (DAA) and the deployment of cloud-based, virtualised CCAP and video architectures, just to mention just a few innovations. “Simple cable redefined,” because network complexity belongs to the dark ages. “Infinite opportunities,” because the industry is engaged in a huge transformation process that will open up new service capabilities and revenue streams to benefit all.We’ll be exploring these various aspects and more over the three days of the conference, which runs from June 12-14 in Cologne. We’ll also be talking about some of our of recent major news announcements, including the launch of our As usual, we’ll be showcasing the technology that our customers are using to build their services. We’ll have live demonstrations of:We’ve also got a packed Make sure you stop by and see us in ANGA COM is a great time to meet with Cisco executives and subject matter experts. Our team will be available to meet with you to discuss your current challenges and opportunities. To request a meeting, contact your Cisco account manager.We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 