---
layout: post
title: My Health Record systems collapse under more opt-outs than expected
date: 2018-07-16 01:02:12
tourl: /article/my-health-record-systems-collapse-under-more-opt-outs-than-expected/
tags: [Law]
---
 t tAustralians attempting to opt out of the government's new centralised health records system online have been met with an unreliable website. Those phoning in have faced horrendous wait times, sometimest t tThe Australian Digital Health Agency (ADHA), which runs the My Health Record system, is reportedly telling callers that they weren'tt t t"On hold with @MyHealthRec for over 1.5 HOURS to opt out without providing my drivers license/passport number. Turns out their entire backed system has crashed and they are telling support staff to just punch peoples details into the website. Confidence inspiring!"t t t"The person i'm speaking to is stressed as f***. Its their first day. I feel bad for her but she also has no idea what's going on and puts me on hold every time I ask something that's not on the script." t tThe problems started early on Monday, the first day of the three-month opt-out period before digital health records are created automatically. t t"Call operator Laura answers. Pleasantlypolitely tells me she can help. Uses my Medicare number to locate my record. But can't change alter my record as system down. She apologizes, guesses this is why I'm having trouble online and suggests I try again later," tweetedt t tCannold, a research ethicist and health regulator, said she'd like to see governmentt t t t Those opting out have cited at t t"I can absolutely categorically state that none of the apps and none of the use of the My Health Record data will be able to be sold to third parties -- that's absolutely prohibited," he said. t tAnd yet earlier this month, the My Health Record partner appt t tWe know full well that prohibiting something doesn't mean it won't happen. t tSome of those opting out were concerned that the ADHA website used Google's reCAPTCHA, which works by sending data offshore for analysis, potentially including personal data. t t"The Privacy Policy linked from the opt-out page says 'We will not disclose or store overseas any personal information you give us, but that's not how reCAPTCHA works,"t t t"reCAPTCHA watches what you do on the page via injected JavaScript controlled by Google, which sends info to 'an Advanced Risk Analysis backend for reCAPTCHA that actively considers a user's entire engagement with the CAPTCHA -- before, during, and after' ... t t"Personally I think the devs just wanted to use modern web tools to prevent bots from spamming the page, and it didn't occur to them to think about the privacy concerns because they never do on other, less sensitive, websites. Which is just the kind of careful handling of sensitive data you want from a centralised national database of the entire population's health information." tOthers were concerned that their health records could be disclosed in court under section 69 of thetLaw enforcement access can be provided if the ADHA "reasonably believes that the use or disclosure is reasonably necessary" for "the prevention, detection, investigation, prosecution, or punishment of criminal offences" or "the protection of the public revenue", among other reasons. The agencies with access are the same as those authorised under the telecommunications data retention legislation. t"[The Australian public service] needs to understand that statutory interpretations aren't just for days in court, proper governance of your interpretation means stating it openly and legitimating it," tweeted Darren O'Donovan, senior lecturer in administrative law at La Trobe University. t"The objective criteria are key because 'reasonable belief' of 'reasonable necessity' is [a] pretty forgiving standard." t tSo far, the government has spent more than AU$4 billion on the digital health records system, which started life as the "personally controlled e-health records" (PCEHR) project in the 2010-2011 federal Budget. t tOnlyt t tThe system was originally planned to be opt-in, but poor adoption rates led to the government flipping it to an opt-out system. Victoria's then privacy commissioner David Watts called that at t t"I actually designed the regulatory system for e-health in Australia, and I swore black and blue ... that we would never be an opt-out system, and always be an opt-in. And of course it's now an opt-out system in order to drive take-up of e-health, because AU$4 billion had been spent on it and very few people had registered," Watts told a privacy conference in 2016. t tOne might think that after at t tBut as of 16:00 AEST on Monday, the ADHA's social media accounts were showing nothing but a generic promo, and even that wasn't posted until lunchtime. t tThe Australian government still seems to have a real problem with computers. Those opting out of My Health Record would seem wise to be doing so. t tThose choosing to opt-out of the My Health Record service will still have their data visible if they reactivate their account. t tPerhaps more worryingly, the use of privacy controls is sitting under the 0.1 percent mark. t tThose who choose to keep their My Health Record will also have a real-time log of who has accessed their information. t tThe window for Australians to opt out of an electronic health record has been announced by the government. t tThe Australian government's My Health Record data use guidelines require the data governance board to make case-by-case decisions on how the data can be used.