title:Data on 3.1 Million Facebook Users Exposed Through App: Report
date:2018-05-16 08:51:14
tourl:https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com:443/news/data-31m-facebook-users-exposed-app/
tags:[law,attack,DNS,DHS,exploit,NSA,FIREEYE,WhatsApp,WebAuthn,draft,hack,act,bill,GDPR,Department of Homeland Security,Exploitation,China,National Security Council]
Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Shortly after    The reported deduction differs significantly from the findings of    In stark contrast to the LSOC findings, Corero noticed a spike in distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks around 17 April but said, “Since then, European attacks have remained higher in the second half of the month versus the first half of April and the year as a whole.”  The news that law enforcement agencies had closed down Webstresser.org was a big win for cybercrime fighters. \"But even so, the number of attacks will only decrease temporarily,\" said Onur Cengiz, head of the Link11 security operation center. \"Experience has shown in recent years that for every DDoS attack marketplace taken out, multiple new platforms will pop up like the heads of a hydra.\"  A    According to the Kaspersky Lab DDoS report, Q1 revealed an increased number of DDoS attacks and targets, but there are distinctions among the different attack methods. “Amplified” attacks were beginning to wane but had a bit of a boost in momentum, while network time protocol (NTP) and DNS-based boosting had almost disappeared after most vulnerable services were patched.     DDoS attacks as a means of personal revenge grew more popular in Q1 2018. Also trending were Memcached attacks that resemble a typical DDoS attack; however, according to the Kaspersky report, “Cybercriminals will likely seek out other non-standard amplification methods besides Memcached.”     As server owners patch vulnerabilities, there will be dips in certain types of attacks. “That being the case, DDoS masterminds will likely seek out other amplification methods, one of which could be LDAP services,” the Kaspersky report authors wrote.       \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                  \tTechnology and science in the medical industry was a major focus in the Australian government's 2018-19 Budget, with the government providing AU$106.8 million over four years to modernise Medicare's IT systems.  \tThe funding will also be used to upgrade the systems across the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, aged care, and related payments.  \t\"This measure includes funding for replacing and decommissioning ageing ICT systems, upgrading cybersecurity, and introducing user experience improvements for consumers and providers of health and aged care services,\" the Budget documents said.  \tThe government is also providing AU$28.2 million over five years to upgrade the software system being used to prescribe medicines.  \t\"This measure supports a national electronic prescribing system that will contribute to Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme efficiency, compliance, drug safety, and data collection,\" the government explained.         \t\"The upgrades will make the system more user-friendly and enable prescribers to better identify prescribing options that best meet the needs of their patients, with doctors to retain the final say in advising patients on which medicines to use.\"  \tUnder Improving Access to Medicines: E-prescribing for safer medicines, the Department of Health will get AU$13.7 million in 2018-19, AU$2.8 million in 2019-20, and AU$400,000 in 2020-21; while the Department of Human Services (DHS) gets AU$1.7 million in 2018-19, AU$4.3 million in 2019-20, AU$600,000 in 2020-21, and AU$600,000 in 2021-22.        \tThe government's new 21st Century Medical Industry Growth Plan also gained AU$1.3 billion in funding under the Budget unveiled on Tuesday.  \t\"Tonight we announce a new 21st century medical industry plan to create more jobs in this fast-growing sector of our economy,\" Australian Treasurer Scott Morrison said in his Budget speech.  \t\"Our plan will provide more support for medical research projects, new diagnostic tools, clinical trials of new drugs, scientific collaboration, and development of new medical technologies that can be sold overseas.\"  \tThe plan will ensure Australia is a \"global health industry leader in medical technology, biotechnology, and pharmaceuticals while improving health outcomes for all Australians through investments in medical innovation\", the Budget documents stated.  \tThe funding for the plan was divided into AU$500 million over 10 years for the Genomics Health Futures Mission and AU$707 million to support the Frontier Health and Medical Research program, clinical trials, Biomedtech programs, and Industry Researcher Collaborations.  \tUnder the plan, the government is also looking to spend AU$30 million on enhancing the data sharing and release capabilities of the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare.  \tThe government had also used the 2018-19 Budget to outline its  \tUnder Delivering Australia's Digital Future: Data sharing and release arrangements, AU$20.5 million over four years will be provided to establish a new framework for data sharing in response to the recommendations for an  \tThe framework will be underpinned by legislation and administered by a newly created National Data Commissioner (NDC), with technical guidance and support to be provided by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) to federal agencies on best practices for de-identifying data prior to release.  \t\"A National Data Commissioner will implement and oversee a simpler, safer, and more efficient government data use framework. The National Data Commissioner will be the trusted overseer of the Government data system, responsible for proactively monitoring the integrity of the system and engaging with the community,\" the Budget papers said.  \t\"The NDC will be responsible for developing guidance on data sharing arrangements; monitoring and addressing risks and ethical considerations on data use; and managing the process for high-value datasets.\"  It’s finally time for the federal government to submit a proposal for raising Russia’s retirement age, acting Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev told the State Duma on Tuesday, pointing out that the country’s current system was established in the 1930s. “Life in this country has changed substantially since then, of course for the better,” Medvedev Today, men in Russia can receive state pensions at 60 and women can retire at 55. Despite repeated warnings from state officials over the years that the country’s current pension program is unsustainable, the government has refused to entertain the idea of raising the retirement age. Beginning last year, the government started gradually increasing the pension age for civil servants and the minimum amount of employee tenure needed to claim a pension.                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 At    CSIT, the UK’s lead university center for commercialization of cybersecurity research, is housed at Queen’s University’s Institute of Electronics, Communications and Information Technology, and was recently selected by the    The announced jobs range from graduate level to principal engineer, and will focus on creating industry-viable products to reduce cyber-attacks and make networks more resilient.     Speaking at the event, director of CSIT Dr Godfrey Gaston said: “The cybersecurity industry in Northern Ireland is growing rapidly and we are pleased to be recruiting 10 new research and engineering staff, who will make a positive impact across the globe, ensuring that networks are more resilient and less likely to be attacked. It is also a welcome boost for the local economy in Northern Ireland.     “At CSIT, our experts work closely with many high profile partners to shape and direct the research agenda and ensure that there is strong commercial and societal impact. With graduate level jobs to principal engineer, we are helping to develop the next generation of industry leaders to address the widespread demand for cybersecurity professionals and technologies.” \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 UK small businesses are up to 20 times more likely to suffer damaging data breaches than their larger counterparts, according to new data from   The dark web intelligence firm crawls the non-indexed web searching for customers’ data, and in so doing identifies when sensitive information has been stolen and put up for sale.     It found 5-20 times the number of breaches coming from smaller firms, although they are often not publicized because of the lower profile of these organizations, the vendor claimed.     “Smaller companies make easier targets because they don't have the resources to effectively defend themselves. Most attacks are automated, so it makes little difference to an attacker if they steal 1,000 personal data records from 100 smaller companies, or if they steal 100,000 personal data records from one company,” explained Terbium Labs CEO, Danny Rogers.     “UK small and medium sized businesses just don't have the volume to absorb a big data breach event, and it can cause so much damage that entire businesses can be destroyed. At the same time, these organizations have far fewer resources, not to mention much more limited data sets, to combat the problem. Currently, they’re sitting ducks.”     Nearly half (47%) of small businesses have experienced a breach or cyber-attack in the past 12 months, according to    Although spending on cybersecurity is higher as a percentage of total spend than other sized companies (33%), just 31% of micro-businesses and 39% of small firms said they have dedicated staff to deal with attacks, according to the government. This is versus 62% of medium and 76% of large businesses.     What’s more, just 39% of small businesses have formal security policies in place, versus 59% of medium and 74% of large firms.     According to the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB), Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Total reported cybercrime losses dropped slightly last year to just over $1.4bn, with ransomware reports falling sharply, according to the latest annual stats from the   The IC3 “People are losing their confidence in government and law enforcement agencies to protect them from cyber-criminals,” argued    However   The top money-earner from 2017 was BEC, netting the black hats over $675m from 15,690 complaints, an average pay-out of over $43,000 per attack.     The next most lucrative attack types of 2017 were confidence/romance fraud ($211m) and non-payment/non delivery ($141m).     The latter also topped the top three most popular attacks, with the FBI receiving over 84,000 complaints last year, followed by personal data breaches (30,904) and phishing (25,344).        Perhaps unsurprisingly, the over 60s represent the most frequently targeted age group (49,523) and those suffering the biggest cumulative losses ($343m).     Outside the US, the top victim countries were Canada (3164 cases), India (2819) and the UK (1383).    \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Microsoft has patched over 60 vulnerabilities in this month’s security update round including two being actively exploited in the wild.     There are a total of 21 critical CVEs to patch in May, one of which,    Microsoft explained further in an    “An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could gain the same user rights as the current user. If the current user is logged on with administrative user rights, an attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could take control of an affected system. An attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights.”     Hackers could trick users into visiting a compromised site, or one featuring malicious ads, or else attackers could exploit the vulnerability through an embedded ActiveX application, or specially crafted Office documents that host the IE rendering engine.     If an attacker can’t gain privileged access, they could exploit an elevation of privilege bug such as the other CVE being exploited in the wild:    “This vulnerability allows an attacker who is logged onto a system to run a specially crafted file to gain privileged access to the system,” explained    There are also two public disclosures this month, meaning there’s enough info out there on how the vulnerabilities work that attackers could create exploits before firms have a chance to update their systems.     This month’s releases also contain an out-of-band patch for“A malicious container could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code on any system installing (or ‘pulling’) the container,” explainedAdobe also patched a  \t \tAvast has reduced the price of its shares ahead of the firm's Initial Public Offering (IPO), an event expected to become one of the UK's largest tech-related IPOs.  \tAs  \tFounded in 1988,  \tWhile headquartered in the Czech Republic, Avast has offices worldwide including in the US, UK, Canada, Russia, and Japan.  \tThe cybersecurity firm claims to prevent up to two billion attacks per month and offers cybersecurity solutions under the AVG brand.         \t Avast hopes to sell approximately 25 percent of its stock with the overall aim of raising up to $200 million.  \t The company is  \t Avast is 46-percent owned by founders Pavel Baudis and Eduard Kucera, while CVC Capital Partners accounts for 29 percent, and Summit Partners holds 7 percent.  \t \t The IPO is expected to take place on Thursday. Based on the new market guidance, Avast may achieve a market capitalization of between $3.38 billion and $3.65 billion once listed, as noted by the publication.  \t Avast had  \t\tThe distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) which knocked KrebsOnSecurity offline for days cost owners of devices unwittingly involved in the attack upwards of $300,000, researchers suggest. \tThe DDoS attack took place in 2016 and was made possible through the Mirai botnet, a network of enslaved Internet of Things (IoT) devices including routers, surveillance cameras, and smart home systems. \tNon-existent or poor security practices, including the use of hardcoded and factory passwords, allowed the operators of the botnet to scour the web for the means to hook up and enslave these devices, providing the bandwidth necessary to launch an attack able to smash the KrebsOnSecurity domain and prevent legitimate traffic from getting through. \tThe access disruption was an annoyance for visitors and a \tThe cost of the attack to the cloud security provider in fending off the 620 Gbps DDoS assault, which could have eventually reached millions of dollars, led to Google's Project Shield \tHowever, there was another cost and not one that would necessarily be immediately apparent --the owners of devices enslaved by Mirai were the ones paying for the threat actor's power usage and bandwidth consumption in launching the DDoS attack. \tAccording to a new study into the direct cost of such IoT-fueled attacks by researchers from the University of California, Berkeley School of Information, \tThe attack lasted 77 hours and was powered by 24,000 insecure IoT devices, which was \tBerkeley researchers based their estimates on devices tested with a sandboxed version of Mirai. The DDoS onslaught cost device owners an average of $0.42 per hour in power, based on the distribution of devices in low, medium, and high-cost electricity zones. \tThe cost of bandwidth was more difficult to estimate, owing to low, medium, and high-cost zones, in addition to Wi-Fi and Ethernet options. However, as an aggregated amount, Berkeley researchers believe the Mirai-fueled DDoS attack cost $4,207.03 per hour. \tOn average, each device involved in the attack is estimated to have cost individual owners $13.50 per product. \t\"The attacker who wanted to clobber my site paid a few hundred dollars to rent a tiny portion of a much bigger Mirai crime machine,\" Krebs noted. \"That attack would likely have cost millions of dollars to mitigate. The consumers in possession of the IoT devices that did the attacking probably realized a few dollars in losses each, if that.\" \t\"Perhaps forever unmeasured are the many Web sites and Internet users whose connection speeds are often collateral damage in DDoS attacks,\" the security expert added. \t\tThis may be unnoticeable to many especially when there are no bandwidth caps in place, but the operating costs of fending off Mirai attacks and similar botnets can be crippling to individual businesses, cloud services, and the enterprise at large. \t Microsoft's Patch Tuesday update addresses a critical flaw in the Windows VBScript engine that attackers are using to compromise Windows machines through Internet Explorer.  The patch follows an alarm by researchers at Qihoo 360 Core Security The IE attack, dubbed 'Double Kill', was delivered via Office documents that open a malicious webpage in the background.  In Microsoft hasn't confirmed this is the bug reported by Qihoo 360 Core Security but notes the flaw is being exploited in the wild.  \"In a web-based attack scenario, an attacker could host a specially crafted website that is designed to exploit the vulnerability through Internet Explorer and then convince a user to view the website,\" Microsoft notes.        \"An attacker could also embed an ActiveX control marked 'safe for initialization' in an application or Microsoft Office document that hosts the IE rendering engine.\" Observed attacks have started with a malicious Word document, which when opened downloads an exploit written in VBScript that's hosted on a webpage, The analysts are also confident the exploit they found is the same as the Double Kill attack Qihoo 360 Core Security reported.  While the zero-day attacks are likely to be the work of state-sponsored attackers, Kaspersky Lab predicts it will become popular with cybercriminals as part of an exploit kit's arsenal for compromising Windows PCs in web-based attacks. That's because the technique allows an attacker to force IE to load and exploit the flaw on an unpatched machine even if victims have set Chrome or Firefox as the default browser. \"Despite a Word document being the initial attack vector, the vulnerability is actually in VBScript, not in Microsoft Word. This is the first time we've seen a URL moniker used to load an IE exploit, and we believe this technique will be used heavily by malware authors in the future. This technique allows one to load and render a web page using the IE engine, even if the default browser on a victim's machine is set to something different,\" the analysts said.  \"We expect this vulnerability to become one of the most exploited in the near future, as it won't be long until exploit kit authors start abusing it in both drive-by via browser and spear-phishing via document campaigns.\" The other vulnerability Microsoft has confirmed is currently being exploited is a Win32k elevation of privilege vulnerability, which is tracked as CVE-2018-8120 and rated as important. \"To exploit this vulnerability, an attacker would first have to log on to the system. An attacker could then run a specially crafted application that could exploit the vulnerability and take control of an affected system,\" Microsoft notes.  Microsoft also got around to Microsoft patched a total of 67 vulnerabilities in the May Patch Tuesday update, of which 21 are rated as critical.  Microsoft is being urged to rush out a patch for a bug in Internet Explorer that's being used in attacks. Google denies multiple requests by Microsoft for an extension to Project Zero's 90-day disclose-or-fix deadline. Microsoft misses Google's 90-day deadline, so Google has published details of an exploit mitigation bypass. For the second time in a week, Google reveals another unpatched Windows 10 vulnerability.             Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Speaking at    He argued that “we are retrofitting security onto an infrastructure that is fundamentally insecure, and was not built with security in mind. The internet was built in a great utopian, engineering vision and it wasn’t built with the idea that people would do things with it.”     We are desperately trying to retrofit security and a lot of people are getting a lot of commercial benefit from that, he said.     “I think the real challenge is to make sure we don’t repeat those mistakes in the future. How do we do the researching now and build the security now to make sure that people don’t look back in 20 years’ time and say that when the IoT explosion happened we hadn’t thought about security?” he asked.     Hannigan said we could amplify the problem we’ve already got by dumping billions of new processes into the network without any care for security.     There is still plenty to do in research, he added, and there is a need to “take some of the responsibility away from the individual. It’s not that individuals don’t need to care about it, but we’ve got to get the right balance between what can be built into hardware security” so we can take away from the individual a lot of the worries about that.     “There’s never been a more exciting time to be doing research in this area, and for that reason there is an opportunity here to get the future right in a way that the past wasn’t,” he concluded. \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 At    The Centre, which will be hosted and run by Plexal with support from    “The mission for the London Cyber Innovation Centre is to build the UK’s international profile in cybersecurity,” Cockerton said, and “to ensure British infosec businesses have clients and investments here in the UK, and also have opportunities to expand their market share in other countries.”     The Centre will aim to place its members at the forefront of technology innovation, ensuring SMBs and businesses alike can protect and prepare themselves for the ever-changing threats of the digital age, she added.     “We aim to be a combining force within the infosec community,” Cockerton said, and “our vision is to provide access points for everyone.”     The UK has always had a world-class reputation for invention, she concluded, but now we have “reputational concerns on our hands as we make our way outside of the EU and define what we want to be as an economy and as a nation. For Plexal and our partners, CSIT and Deloitte, the London Cyber Innovation Centre is an essential initiative to get right.” \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                                      Gang behind malware make money from fraudulent apps -- but if they choose to use their reach for theft, corporations could be put at risk.                                           Malware has reappeared in Google Play, the official Android app marketplace, after previously being identified and removed. Uncovered by researchers at Symantec, the malware was bundled inside at least seven different apps. The apps were listed as emoji keyboard additions, space cleaners, calculators, app lockers, and call recorders, but none actually performed the advertised functions, and only existed to serve up malware in the form of adware to drive clicks for illicit profit. The malware has previously appeared in the Play Store, before being removed after Google was alerted to its presence. However, the same malicious code reappeared in the official Android market place again, but with apps featuring slightly different names under the banner of a new publisher. In order to help the apps slip past Google Play security, the malware is configured to wait four hours before starting the malicious activity. This also helps lure the user into a false sense of security about the app, so even if they notice the device acting suspiciously, they might not attribute this to the recently installed application.        Following activation, the malware looks to consolidate its position on the device by asking for administrator privileges in order to carry out its activity and make it more difficult for the app to be removed. In order for the request to look convincing, the attackers use an official Google Play icon when asking for administrator privileges.  The malware using Google imagery to ask for admin rights.The goal of the malware is to deliver adware, browsers are also forced to repeatedly open scam pages featuring fake 'you won' notifications which when clicked deliver profit to the attackers. ZDNet has approached Google for comment on how the apps were allowed to enter the Play Store after being previously identified as malware, but hasn't received a response at the time of writing. Researchers at Symantec have also identified a further 38 malicious apps which entered the Google Play store for the first time in December. The apps claim to be games and education apps, but don't really have the functions they promise to provide. Instead, they forcibly redirect users to install another app from the Play Store called 'Change My Voice' which does have some functionality and also displays lots of adverts -- once again used to drive click-based revenue. At least 10,000 users in US, UK, South Africa, India, Japan, Egypt, Germany, Netherlands, and Sweden downloaded this malware before it was removed from the Play Store after Symantec informed Google. In order to remain protected against Android malware, researchers recommend keeping software up-to-date and to pay close attention to permissions requested by apps, especially unfamiliar or unusual ones. A recent report by Google said the company However, with a large userbase, even a small percentage of malicious apps slipping through the net could result in millions of devices inadvertently being compromised.  US deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein charges nine Iranian hackers with cyber crimes in March 2018. (Image: file photo)  Iran is likely to respond with cyberattacks against Western businesses in response to the Trump administration's withdrawal from the nuclear deal, cybersecurity experts say.  Research out Wednesday suggests attacks could come \"within months, if not faster,\" according to security firm Recorded Future.  The research paints a detailed picture of how Iran uses contractors and universities to staff its offensive cybersecurity operations -- or hacking efforts -- against foreign targets. A former insider with knowledge of Iran's hacking operations said the attacks are likely to be launched by contractors and thus pose a greater risk of spinning out of control.  On Tuesday, President Donald Trump announced the US would Although there has been no evidence or intelligence to suggest a cyberattack is in the works, researchers say they predict, based on Iran's  \"We assess that within months, if not sooner, American companies in the financial, critical infrastructure, oil, and energy sectors will likely face aggressive and destructive cyberattacks by Iranian state-sponsored actors,\" said Priscilla Moriuchi, a former NSA analyst, now at Recorded Future.        \"The Islamic Republic may utilize contractors that are less politically and ideologically reliable -- and trusted -- and as a result, could be more difficult to control,\" she said.  Countries allied  Levi Gundert, who co-authored the research, told Much of the research is centered on Iran's long-known history of targeting Western businesses and governments with cyberattacks  Tehran began strengthening its cyber capabilities following the Green Revolution, a period of intense protests in Iran against the incumbent government during the Arab Spring in 2009.  The government responded with a heavy crackdown, with an increased focus on cyber operations.  But some of the best hackers available were primarily young and financially driven, said the report. This led to mistrust and fears that the hackers could be bought by foreign intelligence agencies.  According to the former insider, that led to a tiered trust system that centered Tehran's hacking efforts around a central team of trusted and ideologically aligned middle management that dishes out assignments to contractors -- often pitting teams against each other -- who get paid only when the work is completed. The government also uses compartmentalization -- giving one team an infiltration mission and using another to launch a remote code execution attack.  It's estimated that at least 50 organizations are competing for government hacking work, the research said, including contractors and universities to conduct hacking operations.  One such institution, Imam Hossein University, was  But because some of Iran's best operators \"are not always the most devout or loyal to the regime,\" the researchers warn they \"could be more difficult to control.\" That may lead to the IRGC choosing a less ideologically driven contractor, capable of delivering a destructive attack in a short period of time, instead of a trusted and less politically driven contractor.  \"It is possible that this dynamic could limit the ability of the government to control the scope and scale of these destructive attacks once they are unleashed,\" the researchers said.  Recorded Future isn't the only company warning of incoming Tehran-backed cyberattacks.  Security firm FireEye warned that Iranian hackers were \"probing Western critical infrastructure in multiple industries for future attack.\"  \"These efforts did not entirely disappear with the agreement, but they did refocus on Iran's neighbors in the Middle East,\" said John Hultquist, FireEye's director of intelligence analysis, in an email to  \"With the dissolution of the agreement, we anticipate that Iranian cyberattacks will once again threaten Western critical infrastructure,\" he said.                      Zack Whittaker can be reached securely on Signal and WhatsApp at 646-755–8849, and his PGP fingerprint for email is: 4D0E 92F2 E36A EC51 DAAE 5D97 CB8C 15FA EB6C EEA5.                                           Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Many organizations, including the likes of Panera, UnderArmour, Delta and Sears, have suffered the consequences of a \"golden child\" app that runs wild. They all have experienced high-value web-app attacks.  A new study released by Arxan, The study of nearly 1,400 IT and IT security practitioners across the US, EU and APAC indicates that effective app visibility to stop attacks is still lacking and that the motivator for improved app protection comes after the damage is done – loss of productivity, customer trust and revenue.   It's loss, not prevention, that continues to drive investment in application security. As application breaches continue to rise, so do the security risks of running business-critical apps in zero-trust environments.  The majority of organizations (75%) that participated in the study reported that they likely, most likely or definitely experienced a material cyber-attack or data breach within the last year due to a compromised application. More than half (54%) of respondents expect to see a significant increase in threats in 2018, and 64% of respondents are concerned that they will be hacked through an application.   “This is a big deal, it’s not pocket change. The average data breach costs almost $4 million when you include lost customers, the impact to operations, and your insurance costs going up,” said Rusty Carter, vice president of product management, Arxan. “Companies have to change the way they think about investing in app security because threats are only getting worse.”  Despite the anticipation of increased risk, only 25% of respondents report making significant investment in solutions to prevent application attacks, likely because 48% of respondents believe that app performance and speed are more important than security.   The findings in this study points to two struggles companies have faced for some time. \"Giving organizations the visibility into the security posture of their deployed applications allows them to optimize their security and customer experience,\" said Carter. \"Yet security professionals lack an awareness about the status of their app's security.\"   As a result, \"they will be ineffective at responding to attacks before they lead to full-blown breaches,\" said Carter.  \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 When it comes to technology, the old adage \"if it ain't broke, don't fix it\" won't fly. Technology can and will eventually break, and AI technology is no exception. AI is gaining popularity, but advancements for the sake of keeping up in the global marketplace won't ensure that the technology is secure or well utilized.  \"By the Trump administration’s own estimate, the U.S. government spent more than $2 billion in unclassified programs alone during the 2017 fiscal year to research and develop AI technology, according to data furnished this week by the White House’s Office of Science and Technology Policy,\" the With the proliferation of interconnected devices, AI technology has become mainstream, with more and more vendors racing to adopt the technology as their solution, but there are dangers of early AI.  In recent days, the facial recognition technology used by And there are growing concerns about the       While advancement in AI is important and it might be fun to build products, Itsik Mantin, director of security research, Imperva Defense Center, said it's necessary to adopt a hacker's way of thinking in order to build secure solutions.  In an 8 May blog post, \"Calling upon his experiences over the last four years in which he worked on several research projects aimed at incorporating AI technology into products, Mantin said, \"The most significant challenge we had to cope with was making sure that our use of AI worked safely in adversarial settings.  \"In its early days, the community talks innovation and opportunity, expectations and excitement couldn’t be higher. Then comes disillusionment. Once security researchers find ways to make the system do things it wasn’t supposed to, in particular, if the drops of vulnerabilities turn into a flood, the excitement is replaced with FUD – fear, uncertainty and doubt around the risk associated with the new technology,\" Mantin wrote.     \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 The Department of Home Affairs (DHA) is proposing a whole-of-government approach to modernise Australia's trade process, aiming to ensure an international trade future is one where government has visibility of its end-to-end supply chains and access to real-time intelligence information. Addressing the Joint Standing Committee on Trade and Investment Growth on Thursday, DHA representatives discussed its desired single \"touch point\" approach to managing trade, saying it was looking to emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain, and the Internet of Things (IoT) for a suitable framework. \"The majority of traders are trusted and interact in a secure and transparent supply chain,\" a department spokesperson said. \"Intelligence and risk assessment capabilities and revenue collection are improved by new and emerging technologies, such as blockchain, that would improve the veracity, validation, and analysis of intelligence and trade data.\"                      You can read this executive guide as a PDF (free registration required).                                           In exploring \"new and innovative ways\" digital technology can be used to facilitate legitimate trade, DHA said it is continually assessing the applicability of new technologies as they mature. \"Increasingly, technology development builds upon existing and more mature fundamental building blocks including: The IoT, cloud computing, data analytics, and AI,\" the department wrote in its \"This set of technologies forms an ecosystem in which each technology both exploits and fosters the development of the others.\" A specific example DHA highlights as being easily integrated into a trade ecosystem is blockchain.       Trade information required by governments for border clearance purposes is created by industry operators in the international supply chain, and Home Affairs is assessing how it could leverage information that might be held on a trade blockchain.  \"We may not need to develop discrete new border management/import/export systems, but rather leverage the pertinent information captured by industry. Home Affairs would use the information in conjunction with other processes (e.g. risk assessment) to manage the clearance of goods,\" the department's submission continues.  \"It will also provide visibility of goods as they advance through the supply chain,\" it added. \"Blockchain is intended to give real time visibility, significantly improving the information available for risk analysis and targeting, which may eventually lead to increased safety and security as well as greater efficiency in border inspection clearance procedures.\"  Additionally, DHA said blockchain could make it faster to process transactions, and support the formation of new transactional relationships. The committee also heard on Thursday that although still a nascent technology, Home Affairs is researching, investigating, and understanding how industry is leveraging blockchain to build or contribute to its trade modernisation agenda. \"Blockchain is a tool, the information -- it gives you greater visibility of who entered data into the system,\" a DHA representative said on Thursday. \"Garbage in, garbage out; if somebody is intentionally trying to misrepresent the information it will still go into or be captured in a blockchain. What blockchain does provide -- it's a public ledger, a distributed ledger, all stakeholders in the ecosystem will have visibility of that information where it's appropriate.\" Currently, DHA is drip-fed information on trade by other government entities and the private sector, and places it into a centralised depository Home Affairs has.  The trade modernisation plan would see a \"single window\" for all relevant regulatory and transactional information. \"As they emerge, we will use new technologies to better analyse and assess trade data to ensure a more secure border. We will do this while ensuring the threat of cyber incursion of Australian business, as well as government, and of organised crime is managed,\" the department wrote in its submission. \"We recognise that the strategic use of technology will allow us to put in place more efficient business processes, as well as enhancing our capabilities in the important areas of intelligence collection and risk assessment.\" The department said it will also be \"adaptive and proactive\" in the face of future cybersecurity challenges and will, along with Australian business and individuals, play a \"critical role in protecting the community from the threats inherent in a digital trading economy\".   \tDespite the existence of  \tResponding to a Question on Notice by Liberal Senator Linda Reynolds from Senate Estimates, ASD said it did not agree with an assertion that its role should be diminished in keeping government clouds secure.  \t\"ASD is not scaling back on its cloud certification and supporting industry partnerships role,\" the directorate said. \"ASD will continue to assist cloud providers in securing government (and our nation's) information.\"  \tSimply throwing more resources at the certification problem was not a complete solution, ASD said, with agency heads needing to be able to identify and manage cybersecurity risks.  \t\"ASD is best placed to certify cloud services through strong partnerships with industry, using ASD endorsed Information Security Registered Assessors Program (IRAP) Assessors,\" it said.         \t\"Agencies remain risk owners and must conduct accreditation of all cloud services, including those certified by ASD. The DTA Secure Cloud Strategy highlighted that agencies can conduct certification activities.\"  \tIn response to a question from Reynolds on whether the DTA had \"deep level cybersecurity experts\", ASD said it \"employs the bulk of government cybersecurity experts\".        \tEarlier this year, DTA's CEO Gavin Slater told Senate Estimates he wants his  \t\"We had a small cybersecurity team embedded within the DTA ... the role of that team was that when agencies were thinking about transforming the way their services are delivered digitally was to really ensure they were thinking about security not as an afterthought but part of the key design criterion -- that was the primary role of that team,\" Slater said in February.  \t\"But recently under a machinery of government change, with the centralisation of the cybersecurity function under Alastair MacGibbon, that team has been mogged out from the DTA.\"  \tSlater said the work the DTA does with agencies is cross-functional, and it is far easier to have people within the DTA, rather than having to ask for access to them in another arm of government.  \tThe DTA's Secure Cloud Strategy pushed government agencies to use public cloud by default, and asked agencies to make risk-based decisions when applying cloud security; design services only for the cloud and avoid customisation; use as much of the cloud as possible; take full advantage of cloud automation practices; and monitor the health and usage of cloud services in real time.  \t\"Agencies must design all new or modernised ICT services as cloud native, or cloud-enabled,\" the strategy said. Speaking in March, ASD director-general Mike Burgess said a \"Skilled people is not the critical issue here, it's the skill of the  chief executive and his/her management team in identifying and managing  this risk effectively and the skilled executive level that can actually  work through that to ensure themselves the right thing is being done --  that for me is the real issue, not the skills shortage of bright young  ladies or men who know how to configure firewalls or set up systems  securely,\" Burgess explained. \"There's a demand for good IT  people, absolutely, that's not the problem here; the problem is having  the chief executives asking the right questions. \"That's not a cybersecurity skills shortage.\" Appearing before the Joint Standing Committee on Trade and Investment Growth on Thursday, MacGibbon said the ASD under the leadership of Burgess will \"increasingly be advising agencies where we believe they are deficient in their security\". The Joint Committee of Public Accounts and Audit wants the government to include the additional four steps in its list of mandatory infosec strategies. Mike Pezzullo's apparent thought bubble on domestic digital surveillance has been burst, but it foreshadows tense times ahead for Australia's new domestic security arrangements. Microsoft has received accreditation from the Australian Signals Directorate, allowing it to store highly classified government information up to 'protected' level on its Office 365 platform and specific Azure services. The Australian Signals Directorate's newly minted director has rejected the idea of a cybersecurity skills shortage, highlighting rather there's a need to ensure the people at the top of government departments are aware of the threats they face. The multinational is the first overseas player awarded the certification from the agency responsible for foreign signals intelligence and information security in Australia.              \tAustralia's major banks will be forced to make banking data available to consumers from the start of the 2020 financial year, under a new open banking regime agreed upon by the federal government.  \tAgreeing to implement the recommendations made by a Review into Open Banking, conducted by law firm King  Wood Mallesons, the government touted the new regime as having the potential to transform the competitive landscape in financial services and the way in which Australians interact with the banking system.  \tThe review on how to boost competition and innovation in the country's financial services sector in February made a total of 50 recommendations on  \t \t \tThe Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA), the National Australia Bank (NAB), the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ), and Westpac currently  \t \tIn announcing it would be implementing the recommendations from July 1, 2019, the Australian government said the regime will boast strong privacy protections and information security for customers' banking data.  \t\"A key element of these protections is that only trusted and accredited recipients will be permitted to access data, only with customers' express consent and only for the purposes the customer has expressly permitted,\" Treasurer Scott Morrison said in a statement.        \tIt is expected Open Banking will be phased in with the aim that all major banks will make data available on credit and debit card, deposit, and transaction accounts by July 1, 2019, and mortgages by February 1, 2020.  \tData on all products recommended by the review -- including GST and tax accounts, foreign currency accounts, pensioner deeming accounts, and mortgages -- are to become available by July 1, 2020, by financial providers in the top tier.   \tAll remaining banking institutions will be required to implement Open Banking around 12 months after the major banks, with the government noting the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) will be empowered to adjust timeframes if necessary.  \tThe ACCC, alongside the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner (OAIC), has also been tasked with determining the rules of Open Banking, with the standards requested to include transfer, data, and security standards.  \tThe OAIC will specifically ensure that privacy protection is a fundamental feature of the system.  \tCSIRO's Data61 will also be appointed to perform the role of a Data Standards Body, developing technical standards for the system in collaboration with industry, fintechs, and consumer and privacy groups.  \tNAB on Thursday showed support for implementing Open Banking, saying the regime may introduce new ways for banks to compete.  \tCEO Andrew Thorburn said during a review of Australia's four major banks last year that while his bank was supportive of the concept, he wants the potential risks of opening up data to be clearly identified, as he is concerned over what the  \t \t \tAustralia's fintech scene is also relatively happy with the new regime; however the body representing Australia's fintech industry isn't impressed that the federal government decided to delay mortgage data access to February 2020.  \t\"A government-backed open banking framework will be a game-changer for consumers and businesses, along with drive a new wave of fintech innovation and growth in Australia,\" FinTech Australia chair Stuart Stoyan said in a statement Thursday.  \tOpen Banking is being implemented as part of the country's  \t \tThe Consumer Data Right will be established sector-by-sector, beginning with banking, energy, and telecommunications.  \tHanding over  \t \tAU$20.2 million will be spent on the ACCC determining the costs and benefits of designating sectors to be subject to the Right, and developing and implementing the rules to govern the Right and the content of data standards; AU$12.9 million to OAIC to assess privacy impacts and ensure consistency of rules with the  \t \t \tThe Australian government's response to the Productivity Commission Data Availability and Use Inquiry has also revealed that it will be standing up a National Data Commissioner to oversee the sharing of data. \t \tThe Australian Privacy Foundation wants the government to develop security controls around sharing open data and provide the agency charged with investigating data misuse with 'adequate' resources.  \t \tA review has requested that Australia's largest banks be ready to hand over customer data at request from the day an Open Banking regime becomes legislated.  \t \tAustralia is charging headlong into a privacy disaster as government open data initiatives come online without considering how to properly implement privacy safeguards and data anonymity.             Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Around 40% of organizations ignore critical security issues when they don’t know how to fix them, or don’t have the time to address them.  According to In an email toAs an example, he pointed to the fact that Oracle still does quarterly patches, which was a challenge until he worked at a software company “that had tons of stuff built on Oracle.”  He said: “It turns out that you must do QA/integration testing on all those patches before rolling out because they almost always break functionality. This is still current practice with Oracle patches.”  Respondents to the survey were also asked if security testing is conducted on their enterprises systems, which revealed that 7% fail to conduct any security testing whatsoever. However, 79% said that they do carry out testing, with 68% using the services of penetration testers.  Bob Egner, VP at Outpost24, said: “To maximize the value of testing investment, remediation action should be taken as close to the time of testing as possible. The proliferation of connected technologies, the knowledge and resource gap continue to be key challenges. Security staff can easily become overwhelmed and lose focus on the remediation that can be most impactful to the business.”  Tomhave said that another consideration is DevOps; specifically, the cultural change that facilitates continuous integration and development pipelines and heavy automation.   “The answer for production servers is to be able to automate integration and testing, as well as the ability to do A/B (or green/blue) deployments where you automatically patch a golden image, then push it out through the automated integration, build, and deployment process to ramp up new resources, or rapidly flag it back to dev to fix specific integration issues,” he said.  “As such, automation is part of the answer, but again really just as it applies to servers. For user endpoints, mobile devices, and IoT, almost certainly that should all be automated and pushed asap (provided there's a rollback option).”  Marten Mickos, CEO of Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Speaking at    With the multitude of connected devices used globally today, and the continued growth in the future, “we are going to have to use machine-to-machine communication [to control them], which means going forward, we’ll no longer have direct control over with whom or what our devices are communicating with, leading to major security risks,” O’Neill said.     Along with the threats surrounding the huge number of global connected devices, O’Neill also pointed to counterfeit devices, untrusted supply chains, hardware trojans and vulnerabilities affecting hardware devices as factors that are increasing the risks of insecure IoT/connected products.     In terms of the challenges in securing connected devices and making them trustworthy, she cited the following as key:        The answer lies in a need for hardware security, O’Neill said, with a multi-layered approach, establishing a trusted computing baseline that anchors trust in tamper-proof hardware.     To address the issue, RISE was set up with the followings aims/visions:     Mozilla has released Firefox 60 with support for a new option to sign in to websites without using a password.  That's thanks to an emerging W3C standard called By removing passwords, the WebAuthn API will make phishing attacks a lot harder and gives users more convenient authentication choices, including A key advantage, like the FIDO Alliance's predecessor U2F standard for security keys, is that WebAuthn generates cryptographic public-private pairs for signing in, which means no shared secrets that could be leaked if a site is hacked.          Though the standard is currently only rolling out to desktop browsers, in future mobile browsers are likely to support it too.  Beyond signing into websites, WebAuthn combined with another WC3 standard in development, But as it stands, Firefox for the desktop is the first browser to support WebAuthn. Aligning with Firefox 60's WebAuthn support, Dropbox Dropbox has supported U2F since 2015 but only allowed secure sign-in to Dropbox from Chrome. Dropbox sees potential in WebAuthn because it will allow secure sign-in from more browsers and eventually more devices.          However, for now, Dropbox and Firefox support for WebAuthn doesn't entirely remove the need for passwords and currently serves as a means of more broadly supporting two-factor authentication.  Also arriving with Firefox 60 is Mozilla's new money-making scheme \"sponsored stories\", courtesy of its acquisition of the read-it-later service, Pocket. However, users can The feature is rolling out to some US users and will appear in New Tab within Pocket recommendations. Mozilla stresses it is respecting user privacy by generating recommendations on the computer and that browsing history remains private.  Finally, Mozilla has released Firefox Quantum for Enterprise, Organizations can choose the standard Firefox Rapid Release with new features every six weeks or the slower Extended Support Release, which is updated annually.  Browser makers take an important step in reducing the need for passwords and all the security threats they bring. Firefox users will soon start to see sponsored stories in new tabs, but Mozilla says it will respect users' privacy. Firefox could get its own ad blocker and breach notifications alerts, according to Mozilla's 2018 roadmap. Google will launch a new service to protect politicians and senior executives from sophisticated phishing attacks.             Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 At    The first is deterring adversaries, Hersee said, by improving intelligence gathering, using new offensive cyber-capabilities, increasing investment in law enforcement and early intervention. “Deterring is about making the UK a less attractive target in cyber space,” he added. “If we can reduce the reward of conducting cyber-attacks in terms of them being successful, then we can deter them from being conducted.”     The second is defending against cyber-threats, Hersee continued, with emphasis on improving advice and guidance, supporting CNI, increased public sector resilience and active cyber-defense.     The third is developing skills and capabilities, he said, by encouraging an innovative industry, utilizing world-leading research, creating a pipeline of talent and overcoming future threats.     With various National Cyber Security Strategy initiatives, services and efforts now in place to implement the above three areas of focus, its next steps are to measure its performance, develop its capability, scale up from small projects to national level projects and sustain success beyond the end of the project in 2021, Hersee concluded.     “For me, this is actually a whole of society approach; it’s about industry, academia, the public and the Government all working together to develop the skills, growth and technologies that we need to secure the UK.” \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                  \t \t \tThe source code behind a police breathalyzer widely used in multiple states -- and millions of drunk driving arrests -- is under fire.  \t \tIt's the latest case of technology and the real world colliding -- one that revolves around source code, calibration of equipment, two researchers and legal maneuvering, state law enforcement agencies, and Draeger, the breathalyzer's manufacturer.  \t \tThis most recent skirmish began a decade ago when Washington state police sought to replace its aging fleet of breathalyzers. When the Washington police opened solicitations, the only bidder, Draeger, a German medical technology maker, won the contract to sell its flagship device, the Alcotest 9510, across the state.  \t \tBut defense attorneys have long believed the breathalyzer is faulty.         \t \tJason Lantz, a Washington-based defense lawyer, enlisted a software engineer and a security researcher to examine its source code. The two experts wrote in a preliminary report that they found flaws capable of producing incorrect breath test results. The defense hailed the results as a breakthrough, believing the findings could cast doubt on countless drunk-driving prosecutions.  \t \tThe two distributed their early findings to attendees at a conference for defense lawyers, which Draeger said was in violation of a court-signed protective order the experts had agreed to, and the company threatened to sue.        \t \tTheir research was left unfinished, and a final report was never completed.  \t \tDraeger said in a statement the company was protecting its source code and intellectual property, not muzzling research.  \t \t\"Pursuant to a protective order, Draeger provided the source code to both of the defense experts in Snohomish County,\" said Marion Varec, a spokesperson for Draeger. \"That source code is highly proprietary and it was important to Draeger that the protective order limit its use to the purposes of the litigation at issue.\" Draeger says it believes that one of the experts entrusted to examine the source code was using it in violation of the protective order, so Draeger sent the expert a cease and desist letter. Draeger says it \"worked with the expert to resolve the issue.\"  \t \tOf the law firms we spoke to that were at the conference and received the report, none knew of Draeger's threat to launch legal action. A person with a copy of the report allowed  \t \tThe breathalyzer has become a staple in law enforcement, with more than a million Americans arrested each year for driving under the influence of alcohol -- an offense known as a DUI. Drunk driving has its own economy: A multi-billion dollar business for lawyers, state governments, and the breathalyzer manufacturers -- all of which have a commercial stake at play.  \t \tYet, the case in Washington is only the latest in several legal battles where the breathalyzer has faced scrutiny about the technology used to secure convictions.  \t \tWhen one Washington state driver accused of drunk-driving in 2015 disputed the reading, his defense counsel petitioned the court to obtain the device's source code from Draeger.  \t \tLantz, who was leading the legal effort to review the Alcotest 9510 in the state, hired two software engineers, Falcon Momot, a security consultant, and Robert Walker, a software engineer and decade-long Microsoft veteran, who were tasked with examining the code. The code was obtained under a court-signed protective order, putting strict controls on Momot and Walker to protect the source code, though the order permitted the researchers to report their findings, with some limitations. Although the researchers were not given a device, the researchers were given a binary file containing the state's configuration set by Washington State Patrol.  \t \tAlthough their findings had yet to be verified against one of the breathalyzers, their preliminary report outlined several issues in the code that they said could impact the outcome of an alcohol breath test. A Draeger Alcotest 9510 device, with a reading in German. (Image:    \tIn order to produce a result, the Alcotest 9510 uses two sensors to measure alcohol content in a breath sample: An infrared beam that measures how much light goes through the breath, and a fuel cell that measures the electrical current of the sample. The results should be about the same and within a small margin of error -- usually within a thousandth of a decimal point. If the results are too far apart, the test will be rejected.   \tBut the report said that under some conditions the breathalyzer can return an inflated reading -- a result that could also push a person over the legal limit.   \tOne attorney, who read the report, said they believed the report showed the breathalyzer \"tipped the scales\" in favor of prosecutors, and against drivers.   \tOne section in the report raised issue with a lack of adjustment of a person's breath temperature.   \tBreath temperature can fluctuate throughout the day, but, according to the report, can also wildly change the results of an alcohol breath test. Without correction, a single digit over a normal breath temperature of 34 degrees centigrade can inflate the results by six percent -- enough to push a person over the limit.   \tThe quadratic formula set by the Washington State Patrol should correct the breath temperature to prevent false results. The quadratic formula corrects warmer breath downward, said the report, but the code doesn't explain how the corrections are made. The corrections \"may be insufficient\" if the formula is faulty, the report added.   \tIssues with the code notwithstanding, Washington chose not to install a component to measure breath temperature, according to testimony in a 2015 hearing, and later confirmed by Draeger.   \tKyle Moore, a spokesperson for Washington State Patrol said the police department \"tested and approved the instrument that best fit our business needs,\" and believes the device can produce accurate results without the breath temperature sensor.   \tThe code is also meant to check to ensure the device is operating within a certain temperature range set by Draeger, because the device can produce incorrect results if it's too hot or too cold.   \tBut the report said a check meant to measure the ambient temperature was disabled in the state configuration.   \t\"The unit could record a result even when outside of its operational requirements,\" said the report. If the breathalyzer was too warm, the printed-out results would give no indication the test might be invalid, the report said.   \tDraeger disputed this finding. A spokesperson said the Washington devices check their temperature, the check is enabled, and that the devices will not produce a reading while the device is outside its operational temperature range.   \tWhen asked, a Washington State Patrol spokesperson would not say if the breathalyzer was configured to allow breath tests outside its operational temperature range, saying only that the device \"has been tested and validated in various ambient temperatures.\"   \tThe report also scrutinized the other sensor -- the fuel cell -- used to measure a person's alcohol levels. Any fuel cell will degrade over time -- more so when the breathalyzer is used often. This decay can alter the accuracy of test results. The code is meant to adjust the results to balance out the fuel cell's decline, but the report said the correction is flawed. Breathalyzers should be re-calibrated every year, but the state's configuration limits those adjustments only to the first six months, the report added.   \t\"We also note that the calibration age does not account for the use frequency of conditions; a unit that has been used hundreds of times per day would have the same correction as one used only once or twice in several months,\" the report said.   \tConcluding the nine-page report, the researchers say they are \"skeptical\" that the Alcotest 9510 can produce a reliable measurement of breath alcohol.   \t\"Although the apparatus states its output in very absolute terms, we recommend interpreting the results with extreme caution,\" the report said.   \tAlthough Momot and Walker's code review was limited to devices in Washington, similar concerns dragged other states into protracted legal battles, forcing prosecutors to defend not only the breathalyzer but also how it's configured.   \tBut the line between Draeger's source code and each state's configuration is blurry, making it difficult to know who is responsible for incorrect results.   \tDraeger said in an email that the \"calibration and adjustment procedures depend on the instrument, additional equipment and materials, and the persons performing these procedures.\" When asked about the guardrails put in place to prevent calibration errors, the company said, \"only trained and certified personnel perform special instrument certification procedures.\"   \tWashington State Patrol said the device produces accurate results, even without certain sensors installed.                       If source code gets into the wrong hands, the damage would be incalculable.                                             \tDraeger's breathalyzer is widely used across the US, including in California, Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Jersey, and New York. It's often the only breathalyzer used in the states where they were bought.   \tIn both New Jersey and Massachusetts, defense lawyers raised concerns. By acquiring the devices used by the states, lawyers commissioned engineers to analyze the code who say they found flaws that they say could produce incorrect results.   \tBut defense teams in both states largely failed to stop their state governments from using the devices, public records show.   \tNew Jersey's top court found in 2008 that a similar Alcotest breathalyzer -- said to use the same underlying algorithms as the Alcotest 9510 -- was \"generally scientifically reliable\" and can be used with some configuration changes. One such change   \tThe same court ruled five years later that the breathalyzer \"remains scientifically reliable, and generates results that are admissible\" in court.   \tIn nearby Massachusetts, a scandal that blew up in 2017 involving alleged failings in the breathalyzer   \tA district judge ruled that breath test results from miscalibrated devices for two years prior to September 2014 were \"presumptively unreliable,\" said Joe Bernard, a defense attorney who led the case against the Alcotest 9510 in Massachusetts.   \tBernard, and his colleague Tom Workman, a computer forensic expert who later trained as a lawyer and consulted on the case, obtained the state's source code and produced a report.   \tIn a phone call, Workman criticized the Draeger breathalyzer, arguing that it can produce widely inflated results. One section of his report claimed the device had a litany of programming errors, including code that -- like in Washington -- apparently fails to correct for fuel cell fatigue.   \tBut the court rejected the findings and found the source code still produced sound scientific results.   \tWhile legal battles were ongoing, Washington waited to push ahead with its deployment, but the   \tAlmost a year later, Washington State Patrol's toxicologist said in an email  seen by   \tWhen asked whether an independent evaluation was ever commissioned, a Washington State Patrol spokesperson would not comment further and referred back to the legal filings in the case.   \tA later email in 2015 confirmed that the Washington State Patrol was \"never commissioned.\"   \tMoses Garcia, a former Washington state prosecutor who now works for a non-profit providing local governments in the state with legal advice, said in an email that the earlier breathalyzer in the New Jersey case had already been deemed admissible, and that the newer Alcotest 9510 uses the \"same basic algorithms and formulas\" as its predecessor.   \tThe former prosecutor criticized the defense's discovery effort as \"speculation.\"   \t\"In adopting and approving the [Alcotest 9510], the Washington breath alcohol program exceeds, by far, the scientific standards accepted in the scientific community for breath test instrument validation,\" he said.   \tFive years after the contract was signed, Washington State Patrol began deploying hundreds of Draeger breathalyzers in 2014 -- sparking interest from defense attorneys in the state.   \tNot long after, defense attorneys in the state sought access to the devices.   \tLantz was granted access to the source code used for Momot and Walker's code review by a local county court. In one of several recent phone calls with   \t\"We thought we would find something but nothing like this,\" he said.   \tHundreds of DUI lawyers descended on Las Vegas in mid-2017 for their annual gathering.   \tAt the event, the two researchers shared their findings, which claimed the Alcotest 9510 having a \"defective design.\"   \tWord spread quickly. Draeger sent the researchers a cease and desist letter claiming defamation and alleging the two violated a protective order, designed to protect the source code from leaking.   \tDraeger and the researchers settled before a case was filed in court, avoiding any protracted legal battle. A legal case disputing the fine print of the order could have taken years to resolve.   \tDraeger said it \"remains willing to provide the source code for use in other litigation in Washington, so long as a proper protective order is in place.\"   \tBeyond a   \tThe statement said that the two experts \"never intended to violate the protective order\" and denied any wrongdoing. But the two sides \"agree\" the draft report was based on incomplete data and not finished -- and that \"no one in possession of the report should rely on it for any purpose.\"   \tWe reached out to Walker with questions, but he referred only to the settlement statement on his company's website, and he declined to comment further.    \tDraeger would not say why the settlement did not include a retraction on the report's findings.   \t\"There has not been an evidentiary hearing in Washington. If and when there is one, Draeger will cooperate fully,\" a spokesperson said.   \tBut Lantz paints a different picture. The defense attorney said he believes there \"really was no technical violation of the protective order,\" because the report didn't disclose any source code.   \t\"I do believe that [Draeger] is trying to interpret the protective order to be something that it's not,\" he said. \"If we could go back in time, I would've asked that the report was not handed out -- just because of the optics of it.\"   \tLantz said the protective order is vague, but contends it was framed to prevent the researchers from using the source code or their findings for commercial gain -- effectively preventing Momot and Walker from using their knowledge to build their own competing devices. He believes the order gives Draeger near complete control over the code and anything the company deems \"protected\" information.   \tThat's when Draeger \"began developing a strategy on how to block\" the researchers' report, said Lantz, because the company didn't want the \"pervasive exposure of these flaws.\"   \t\"I believe that interest of Draeger's to protect their bottom line overlaps with the state's interest to keep juries from hearing this information about the problems,\" he said.   \tDraeger maintained that it is protecting its intellectual property. The company said in response that it \"takes very seriously the proprietary nature of its source code,\" and \"protects proprietary information as a sound business practice,\" which can include various types of communications or agreements for a particular matter.   \tMomot and Walker are no longer involved with the case, but Sam Felton, a Washington-based software engineer, is set to conduct another review of the Alcotest 9510 code. When contacted, Felton would not speak in specifics about his findings to date, citing his own protective order, except that he found things in the code that caused him \"to have concerns.\"   \tAnd Lantz, now at a new law firm, is working on starting discovery proceedings in neighboring King County, home of Seattle, the largest city in the state.                       Zack Whittaker can be reached securely on Signal and WhatsApp at 646-755–8849, and his PGP fingerprint for email is: 4D0E 92F2 E36A EC51 DAAE 5D97 CB8C 15FA EB6C EEA5.                                                                  A fiber router. (Image: file photo)Several botnet operators are targeting a popular but vulnerable fiber router, which can be easily hijacked thanks to two authentication bypass and command injection bugs. ZDNet In other words, these routers are prime targets for hijacking by botnet operators. Now, a All five botnets -- Muhstik, Mirai, Hajime, Satori, and Mettle -- have developed exploits to target the fiber routers, but so far none of the botnets have successfully hacked and hijacked the routers.        The security researchers say it could be a matter of time.  \"Fortunately, the current attack payloads from muhstik, mirai, hajime, and satori, have been tested to be broken and will not implant malicious code [...] and mettle's C2 server is now offline, although it could really finish the implant during its appearance,\" said the researchers.       The routers, developed by The company said, however, that it does \"not have direct insight to the total number of units that are still actively used in the field.\" Even though its routers are under attack, DZS has indicated that it will not fix the vulnerabilities, but will work \"with each customer to help them assess methods to address the issue for units that may still be installed in the field.\" The company said it will \"be up to the discretion of each customer to decide how to address the condition for their deployed equipment.\" Routers are a prime target for hackers to abuse because they are Earlier this month, both UK and US authorities warned that Russian hackers are                      Zack Whittaker can be reached securely on Signal and WhatsApp at 646-755–8849, and his PGP fingerprint for email is: 4D0E 92F2 E36A EC51 DAAE 5D97 CB8C 15FA EB6C EEA5.                                           Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 The one-year anniversary of WannaCry, the ransomware that disrupted businesses across the globe, is upon us. Since the ransomware attack that impacted an estimated 200,000 computers, new research suggests that organizations across the UK are still struggling to deal with ransomware, none more than those in the healthcare industry.  Over 400 IT decision makers at UK businesses partook in a recently released That number could indicate a false sense of security, given that 45% of respondents had suffered a ransomware attack. Of those, nearly a quarter (23%) actually paying the ransom. More than half of the healthcare companies polled (52%) admitting to having suffered an attack.  “Organizations still aren’t investing the necessary time and resources in risk mitigation and recovery processes, leaving them with limited options in case of a successful attack. The healthcare industry in particular needs to be very aware of the fact that it is a high-profile target, with valuable data at stake, and take special care to ensure that defenses are in place,” said David Kennerley, director of threat research, Webroot.  In the healthcare sector, multiple attacks hit over one in four (26%) organizations. Of the 400 survey participants, 56% of respondents would consider paying the ransom. That number is smaller for organizations in the healthcare sector, with only 34% saying they would consider paying. Interestingly, only 5% of all those surveyed have stocked Bitcoin should they need to pay a ransom. However, 8% of organizations in the healthcare sector have acquired cryptocurrency.  “A ransomware attack should be a blip on the radar that wastes people’s time to restore from backups, not a week-long debacle of trying to restore service and deciding whether to pay the ransom or not,” said Mounir Hahad, head of Juniper Threat Labs at Juniper Networks.  While backing up critical data and testing backups regularly has been advised as a way to mitigate the risks of a ransomware attack, 36% of survey respondents don’t have a regular backup system. That decreases to 32% when looking solely at the healthcare industry.  Addressing the human factor seems to be one step that many companies have taken to mitigate risk. Kennerley noted that when organizations invest in security awareness training with phishing simulation tools, they are less likely to suffer from attacks than those who don’t invest in employee education. Fewer than half of the respondents (46% overall, 42% in healthcare) reported that they have not held staff training on ransomware. \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Cybersecurity has been top of mind for legislators in the United States, with two different House panels giving a green light to bills that would allow the State Department to implement a bug bounty program and ensure increased security for critical infrastructure in the energy sector.  It’s hardly a secret that there are weaknesses in the digital systems of several federal agencies, which is why Reps. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) and Ted Yoho (R. Fla.) co-sponsored the “Hack Your State Department Act.” The House Foreign Affairs Committee approved a bipartisan bill that would allow security researchers to search for flaws in the State Department’s digital systems.  The bill, introduced on 21 March, highlights the federal government’s efforts to enhance cybersecurity. Approved 9 May by the House panel, the bill will now go to the full House for a vote. If approved, the State Department will have one year to establish a Vulnerability Disclosure Program (VDP), which will set the parameters for responsible disclosure. The VDP will also include State Department procedures for fixing reported vulnerabilities.  According to Modeled after the highly successful Additionally, a House Energy and Commerce Committee approved several pieces of legislation to secure critical infrastructure across industries in the energy sector.  “The bipartisan proposals are designed to bolster the Department of Energy’s cybersecurity efforts. One, for instance, would establish a new program at the department focused on the physical security and cybersecurity of energy pipelines and liquefied natural gas facilities,” The actions of both committees affirm the commitment to improving security across digital systems and throughout the nation’s critical energy assets.  In related news, Senate Democrats have moved to According to   \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 In the web browser war, Mozilla is positioning itself to dominate over the competition with its release of Firefox 60, which includes the option of a password-less signin.   The latest version of the Firefox browser uses a Web Authentication API, WebAuthn for short, which enables authentication using public key cryptography, taking credentials management to a new level.   The change was driven in large part by Mozilla's desire to attract younger users. Over the course of the last two years, Mozilla has been researching behavior changes in Millennials. \"There's a sea change in the world right now,\" Jascha Kaykas-Wolff, CMO, Mozilla, said in Mozilla's research found that a large group of Millennials care about the utility of the products they choose to use. The need for creating and constantly changing user passwords has proven to be overwhelming for end users, which brings value to a product that eliminates the need to use a password when signing in to websites.   \"This resolves significant security problems related to phishing, data breaches, and attacks against SMS texts or other second-factor authentication methods while at the same time significantly increasing ease of use (since users don't have to manage dozens of increasingly complicated passwords),\" WebAuthn works as a supplement to existing APIs already in use on many websites. As many Credential Management APIs do, the Web Authentication API uses both On 8 May, Dropbox programmer Brad Girardeau published aBecause the information used in WebAuthn never leaves the security key, it's reportedly much harder to steal. However, Dropbox has no immediate plans of replacing the password. \"There are still many security and usability factors to consider in these scenarios before replacing passwords entirely, and we believe that enabling WebAuthn for two-step verification strikes the right balance for most users right now,\" wrote Girardeau.        Lawmakers in the State Duma are planning to introduce The law itself was a response to the U.S. Magnitsky Act, which imposed visa restrictions on Russians believed to be involved in human rights crimes. The latest revisions to the Dima Yakovlev law would allow officials to target “foreigners who interfere in Russian elections.” A lawmaker who helped write the new legislation says it would allow officials to outlaw any foreign organization that is found guilty of interfering in Russia’s elections. The State Duma apparently plans to target American and British organizations most of all. “These countries are legally allocating billions of dollars to interfere in our political life and our elections, and it goes unpunished,” deputy Mikhail Emelyanov told the news agency  \tThe source code for the TreasureHunter point-of-sale (PoS) malware has been leaked online and may result in a fresh wave of attacks against retailers.   The code, discovered and confirmed by Flashpoint researchers, has been released to the public through a Russian-speaking online forum.  The same threat actor has also leaked the malware's GPU builder and administrator panel, which when compiled, offers those without specialized knowledge the opportunity to wreak havoc on target PoS systems.    This stolen information may then be used to create clone cards and customer records stolen from PoS terminals may also be sold on for the purposes of identity theft.          In the cases of  On Thursday, Flashpoint The malware family has been on the radar since 2014. The original developer appears to be a Russian speaker with proficiency in the English language who developed TreasureHunter for the underground dump seller BearsInc.  According to a TreasureHunter is a typical PoS malware variant. The malware targets Windows-based servers and PoS terminals, and once infected and executed, creates a registry which launches the malware at startup.   The malicious code then scans PoS devices for track data and credit card information. These records are then collected and sent to a CC server.  It is not known why the source code has been leaked. It may be that the operator is leaving the PoS criminal world and is washing their hands of their creation, or it could be that a new-and-improved PoS malware is in development.    \"In the past, malware source code leaks such as the Zeus banking Trojan have spawned numerous variants, including Citadel, which cost organizations hundreds of millions in losses,\" the researchers note. \"PoS malware leaks have had similar effects, most notably with the 2015 leak of the Alina malware which led to the creation of the ProPoS and Katrina variants.\" The source code is available and therefore can be customized by users for their own ends -- potentially leading to an influx of new PoS malware variants.  One silver lining, however, is that security researchers can also plunder the code for insight into the PoS malware industry and use this knowledge to improve cybersecurity solutions for individuals and businesses alike.  \t\t A new malware campaign has been uncovered on Facebook which not only steals account credentials but also installs scripts for covert cryptocurrency mining. \tCybersecurity firm Radware \tThe malware is so called due to the abuse of a legitimate Google Chrome extension called \"\tNigelthorn was discovered in May this year and has infected over 100,000 Facebook users in over 100 countries to date. \tAccording to Radware researchers, the Nigelthorn campaign is propagating across the social network through social engineering and private messages and aims to dupe users into downloading malware for the purpose of account hijacking, cryptojacking, and click fraud.        \tPotential victims will see a message from a connection in their network which tags them in a post or will receive private messages which alternatively contain a malicious link or picture. \tIf a victim clicks through, the malicious link redirects victims to a fake YouTube page which requests that users install a Google Chrome extension in order to play video content.  In order to bypass Google's validation checks, the threat actor responsible creates copies of legitimate extensions and inject short, obfuscated, malicious scripts within them. Once a user accepts the \"Add Extension\" request, a malicious extension is installed and the victim's system is added to a botnet. These malicious extensions also redirect the victim to Facebook in order to generate a session token and hijack their online session in order to slurp up their Facebook account credentials and send them to command-and-control (CC) server.  This access also permits the malware to send messages in their stead and propagate further.  \tNigelthorn is also capable of stealing Instagram cookies if they are found. \tOnce the malicious extension is installed on the Google Chrome browser, malicious JavaScript comes into play. The script is downloaded from the CC server and further installs a cryptomining tool. \tThis tool forces the victim's machine to covertly mine for cryptocurrencies, of which the proceeds are sent to mining pools controlled by the attacker.  Radware says that in the last few days, Monero, Bytecoin, and Electroneum are the mining targets and the attackers have made roughly $1,000. \tNigelthorn employs a number of techniques in order to retain persistency on the victim's machine. If a victim tries to open the extensions tab, the malware automatically closes it. The malware also blocks users from downloading Facebook and Chrome cleaner tools, deleting Facebook posts, and making comments. \tWhile malicious copies of Nigelify are responsible for the majority of infections, the researchers have also discovered other legitimate extensions which have been abused including PwnerLike and iHabno. \tFour other extensions were detected by Google's security systems and were removed in less than 24 hours. \tThe majority of infections have taken place in the Philippines, Venezuela, and Ecuador. \t \t\"The malware depends on Chrome and runs on both Windows and Linux,\" the researchers say. \"It is important to emphasize that the campaign focuses on Chrome browsers and Radware believes that users that do not use Chrome are not at risk.\" \tA Google spokesperson Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 According to security researcher and developer “A spokesperson later told ZDNet that the company had changed the password and that the service was pulled offline while the company investigates, and that the portal was a tool used by the company's web development team to quality check its code.  The spokesperson said: “This development code does not contain any information pertaining to our production infrastructure or production API credentials as these are maintained in separate secure systems and details are changed by a separate team.  “We take the security of our customer data extremely seriously and would like to thank the researcher for bringing this issue to our attention. We're conducting a thorough investigation to make sure this does not happen again.”  Luis Corrons, security evangelist at “We have seen cases before where personal data has been made publically available due to the absence of proper protection,” he said. “A prime example is the case last year in the US where three marketing companies working for the Republican Party published a database online with information on about 198 million registered voters. Anyone could download the full database because there were no security measures in place.” \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Google has updated the presentation of its privacy policy ahead of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that comes into force in a few weeks.  As the saying goes, a picture is worth a thousand words, and Google is adopting this approach to its new privacy policy that will roll out on May 25, the day GDPR takes effect in Europe, introducing stricter rules on data collection, usage and consent.  The layout of the The contents are largely unchanged, but rather than using text-heavy chapters with descriptions and bullet points, the new policy leads with a list of content categories that can be clicked to hop to each section of the policy.              Each section of the policy now includes illustrations or short YouTube videos that explain in simple language what the policy means and what devices and services it covers, including Android, Chrome, Search, Maps, YouTube and Google Home.   The purpose of the redesign is to make it easier for users to find information about what information Google collects and understand why it does it. It also offers links within the policy that lead to privacy settings.        \"We've improved the navigation and organization of the policy to make it easier to find what you're looking for; explained our practices in more detail and with clearer language; and added more detail about the options you have to manage, export, and delete data from our services,\" William Malcolm, director of privacy legal at Google EMEA, Google will also be emailing all its users to inform them about the new policy, meaning billions of people are set to receive the notification.  Another part of Google's GDPR compliance effort focuses on data portability. To support this issue, Google recently released the \"Data Transfer Project envisions an ecosystem of adapters that convert a range of proprietary formats into a small number of canonical formats useful for transferring data,\" Google \"This allows data transfer between any two service providers using the service provider's existing authorization mechanism, and allows each service provider to maintain control over the security of their service.\" To encourage service providers to adopt the technology, the project draws a distinction between a user's data and a service provider's data.  \"Portability should not extend to data collected to make a service operate, including data generated to improve system performance or train models that may be commercially sensitive or proprietary.\" Finally, Google is rolling out its Family Link Android app to all countries within the EU. Until now the Family Link service The app lets parents create a Google Account for their child's Android device and manage what apps their children can use.   \"Under the new rules, companies must get consent from parents to process their children's data in certain circumstances,\" notes Malcolm. Google outlined its vision of an AI driven future this week at Google I/O and the data privacy discussion is just starting. Don't forget the return on investment for you sharing data. Unlike others, Google didn't jab Facebook in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica disaster. Google wants its customers to know that it's emphasizing products that protect an organization's sensitive data and assets. Here's how the social media giant is updating privacy policies ahead of the EU's new data law. Facebook is making changes that will prevent non-European users previously under European laws from being protected by the General Data Protection Regulation. Report shows a majority of organizations aren't ready for the new data protection rules.             Microsoft has heavily promoted the advances it's made in Windows 10's built-in exploit mitigations to encourage enterprise adoption, but Google's Project Zero isn't convinced key defenses can stand up to advanced hackers.  Project Zero researcher Ivan Fratric has released a Currently ACG exploit mitigation is exclusive to Edge and aims to prevent advanced attackers from executing malicious code in memory if they've already compromised a content process in the browser. Fratric in February The bypass undermined -- and helped Microsoft improve -- a customization Microsoft developed to ensure Edge's Just in Time (JIT) JavaScript compilers worked with ACG enabled.  The solution required considerable effort on Microsoft's part and involved putting Edge's JIT engine in its own sandboxed process, separate from the browser's content processes.  The defense should ultimately stop advanced attackers escaping Edge's sandbox. However,  Fratric found that while ACG generally stands up to the task, it and another feature called Code Integrity Guard, are let down by a further Windows 10 exploit mitigation feature called Control Flow Guard (CFG).  Fratric contends that for ACG to be successful at blocking all attacks, ACG, CIG and CFG all need to be impervious to bypasses. But that's not the case with CFG, and in some attack scenarios Chrome's site-isolation feature would be harder to bypass than Edge with ACG enabled, according to Fratric.  \"Currently, He continues later: \"ACG does succeed to fulfill its purpose of preventing executable memory from being allocated and modified. However, due to mutual dependence of CFG, ACG and CIG and the shortcomings of CFG in Microsoft Windows, ACG alone can't be sufficient to stop advanced attackers from escaping a browser's sandbox and mounting other attacks.\"  Google's Chrome developers see site-isolation, which involves running each site in its own sandboxed process, as the However, overall Fratric believes that Microsoft's customizations that enabled ACG for Edge are inherently flawed.  \"While the paper focuses on Microsoft Edge, we believe that any other attempt to implement out-of-process JIT would encounter similar problems,\" Fratric ZDNet has contacted Microsoft for its comments and will post its response should one be received. Microsoft misses Google's 90-day deadline, so Google has published details of an exploit mitigation bypass. For the second time in a week, Google reveals another unpatched Windows 10 vulnerability. A Google-developed kernel fuzzer has helped locate dozens of Linux security flaws. CPUs can leak data when unwinding unused speculative execution paths.             Symantec is facing a brutal day on Wall Street after disclosing Thursday that its board is investigating concerns raised by an ex-employee. The cybersecurity firm didn't reveal the nature of the employee's concerns, and the uncertainly sent its stock plunging more than 30 percent on Friday.  Symantec did say that the investigation would likely delay the release of its annual report, and that its board has assembled an audit committee and retained independent counsel to deal with the matter. Symantec has also reported the investigation to the Securities and Exchange Commission. \"The investigation is in its early stages and the Company cannot predict the duration or outcome of the investigation,\" Symantec wrote in its Q4 Symantec now faces a class action lawsuit brought by Rosen Law Firm on behalf of Symantec shareholders. The suit will seek to recover losses suffered by Symantec investors after Thursday's disclosure, according to a On a positive note, Symantec's Q4 results satisfied market estimates. The company reported revenue of $1.2 billion, an increase of 10 percent year-over-year. Non-GAAP earnings were 46 cents a share. The company's net loss narrowed to $35 million, or 6 cents a share.        However, sales from Symantec's enterprise security unit, a key revenue generator for the Mountain View, California-based company, declined seven percent in Q4.  CEO Greg Clark thinks that online information protection will be even more important in the years to come. Organisations soon won't be able to purchase office equipment that isn't internet connected, according to Symantec CTO Nick Savvides, and as a result will have to establish security policies in preparation. With Australians to soon transfer money in near real-time, banks will need to up their fraud detection capabilities, but Symantec's local CTO has said biometrics isn't the way to do that.              Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Social engineering tactics are the bread and butter of hackers. Preying on trust, malicious actors are able to lure users into sharing personal information, even login credentials.  White hat hackers will often leverage these same tactics for good, which Kevin Mitnick, chief hacking officer, When 2FA is enabled and a user attempts to log in to a website, they first have to enter a code. As an additional layer of security intended to verify the authenticity of the user, that code is sent via email or SMS.   Using a tool called    Despite being an additional layer of security, 2FA is vulnerable to attackers like any other technology. \"This attack demonstrates that even multifactor authentication has inherent weaknesses. A more reliable 2FA approach includes push notifications via the authentication app itself, as well as ‘what-you-have’ hardware devices like a Yubikey,\" said Zack Allen, manager of threat operations, \"2FA is an excellent first step in ensuring that accounts are not hijacked,\" said Allen, \"but as demonstrated in this example, attacks like phishing, social engineering, and spoofing still have serious consequences. People and businesses alike are looking to more comprehensive education- and technology-based solutions for staying safe online.\"  Even with controls like 2FA in place, businesses and individuals need to be wary of the security implications of networks, which is why security awareness education is critical. Users need to keep abreast of possible risks.  Because the issues demonstrated have been well known for at least a decade, many, including NIST, have recommended that organizations not trust SMS based 2FA, said Steve Manzuik, director of security research, \"Even in the scenario where a one-time passcode (OTP) is issued, it can be phished by even low-skilled attackers. This demonstrates why SMS/OTP   \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 In the aftermath of President Trump pulling out of the Iran nuclear deal, there has been much With the paramount goal of preparing to defend against potential threats, the news that national security adviser, John Bolton, aims to eliminate the role of special assistant to the president and cybersecurity coordinator has confounded industry leaders.   \"The possible changes come as a surprise as Bolton has been considered a supporter of a more vigorous cybersecurity strategy that targets enemies of the U.S.,\" Many security experts have expressed concerns over the potential elimination of the cybersecurity coordinator position that was created by former President Obama in 2009 and is currently held by Rob Joyce.  Joseph Carson, chief security scientist at \"Without clear cooperation and transparency this will continue to grow as a major problem with a possibility of a full cyber-war as retaliation and with no expert in the White House to see through the fog of threats then this could result in a major disaster,\" Carson said.  Because cybersecurity must be a high priority at all levels, not having a dedicated person focused on the cybersecurity strategy could cause different challenges. \"It will send a wrong message to other nations and malicious actors. Anytime you put dedicated focus and a dedicated person with responsibility on any task [it] gets done better and faster,\" said Rishi Bhargava, co-founder at For a wide variety of reasons, leaders across all sectors in the industry are echoing the sentiment that such a cut is not a good idea.  \"Cybersecurity leadership positions are critical at high-risk environments both tactically and strategically,\" said Larry D. Johnson, CEO,   \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 A new malware campaign detected by Radware's threat research group is reported to be proliferating through fraudulent Facebook links. According to the research of Adi Raff and Yuval Shapira, the malware infects users by abusing a Google Chrome extension, the Nigelify application. Hence the malware has been dubbed Nigelthorn.   \"The original Nigelify application replaces pictures to 'Nigel Thornberry' and is responsible for a large portion of the observed infections,\" the researchers wrote in a RadwareThe malware has been known since March 2018. Malicious actors have socially engineered links on Facebook so that when users click on the link, they are redirected to a fake YouTube page. Rather than watching the video they expect to see, they are asked to install the dubious extension.  The extension then executes a malicious JavaScript code, turning the victim's computer into part of a botnet. In addition to stealing the victim's Facebook and Instagram credentials, the malware also collects data from the user's Facebook account.   \"This stolen information is then used to send malicious links to friends of the infected person in an effort to push the same malicious extensions further. If any of those friends click on the link, the whole infection process starts over again,\" wrote All the while, an additional crypto-mining tool is also downloaded by the malware. While the group has been observed as attempting to mine Electroneum, Bytecoin, and Monero, they've had the greatest success mining from the Monero pool, earning approximately $1,000 in six days.   While Google's security algorithms have blocked four of the seven malicious extensions identified by Radware researchers, attackers remain able to bypass Google's extension validation checks by exploiting Nigelify and PwnerLike.  The Radware researchers wrote, \"Zero-day malware leverages sophisticated evasion techniques that often bypass existing protections that skilled groups study. Nigelify, which Radware identified in a well-protected network, has gone undetected despite several security solutions.\" \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 (Image: file photo) \tA senator is demanding that the FCC investigate why a company, contracted to monitor calls of prison inmates, also allows police to track phones of anyone in the US without a warrant.  \tThe  \tThe report said former Mississippi County sheriff Cory Hutcheson used the service nearly a dozen times to track the phones of other offices, and even targeted a judge.  \tHutcheson has pleaded not guilty to conducting surveillance without court orders.         \tSecurus provides the location-tracking feature for law enforcement and corrections officers, the report said, which helps locate individuals who abscond from justice or are missing. (Screenshot: ZDNet. Source:  \tSen. Ron Wyden, a Democratic senator from Oregon whose work often focuses on tech and privacy, sent  \tWyden said the system allows police and government employees to conduct unauthorized and warrantless surveillance, and it \"needlessly exposes millions of Americans to potential abuse and surveillance by the government.\"  \tSecurus said it required an \"official document giving permission\" to obtain real-time location data, but Wyden's office said that Securus officials make no effort to verify the purported authorizations.  \tSecurus provides this real-time location data through a self-service portal for police, said Wyden, for \"nothing more than the legal equivalent of a pinky promise.\"  \tWyden also sent In a blog post, the ACLU said the system is \"ripe for abuse.\" \"The FCC should also immediately investigate Securus and any companies that provide similar services. It should make clear that this conduct, which essentially coerces individuals into 'consenting' to location tracking or other surveillance, and which fails to confirm the validity of search warrants before tracking people's cell phones, raises serious questions under existing federal law and must be halted,\" the post read. \"Additionally, they must take steps to ensure that telecommunications providers themselves adequately safeguard data from this type of abuse.\"  \tThe cell carriers are investigating, the report said.                       Zack Whittaker can be reached securely on Signal and WhatsApp at 646-755–8849, and his PGP fingerprint for email is: 4D0E 92F2 E36A EC51 DAAE 5D97 CB8C 15FA EB6C EEA5.                                            (Image: file photo) \tA senator is demanding that the FCC investigate why a company, contracted to monitor calls of prison inmates, also allows police to track phones of anyone in the US without a warrant.  \tThe  \tThe report said former Mississippi County sheriff Cory Hutcheson used the service nearly a dozen times to track the phones of other offices, and even targeted a judge.  \tHutcheson has pleaded not guilty to conducting surveillance without court orders.         \tSecurus provides the location-tracking feature for law enforcement and corrections officers, the report said, which helps locate individuals who abscond from justice or are missing. (Screenshot: ZDNet. Source:  \tSen. Ron Wyden, a Democratic senator from Oregon whose work often focuses on tech and privacy, sent  \tWyden said the system allows police and government employees to conduct unauthorized and warrantless surveillance, and it \"needlessly exposes millions of Americans to potential abuse and surveillance by the government.\"  \tSecurus said it required an \"official document giving permission\" to obtain real-time location data, but Wyden's office said that Securus officials make no effort to verify the purported authorizations.  \tSecurus provides this real-time location data through a self-service portal for police, said Wyden, for \"nothing more than the legal equivalent of a pinky promise.\"  \tWyden also sent In a blog post, the ACLU said the system is \"ripe for abuse.\" \"The FCC should also immediately investigate Securus and any companies that provide similar services. It should make clear that this conduct, which essentially coerces individuals into 'consenting' to location tracking or other surveillance, and which fails to confirm the validity of search warrants before tracking people's cell phones, raises serious questions under existing federal law and must be halted,\" the post read. \"Additionally, they must take steps to ensure that telecommunications providers themselves adequately safeguard data from this type of abuse.\"  \tThe cell carriers are investigating, the report said.                       Zack Whittaker can be reached securely on Signal and WhatsApp at 646-755–8849, and his PGP fingerprint for email is: 4D0E 92F2 E36A EC51 DAAE 5D97 CB8C 15FA EB6C EEA5.                                                                           \tThe Australian government has published guidelines on the third-party use of data from its contentious My Health Record, with the Secondary Use of Data Governance Board charged with making many of the decisions on who and why data can be used, on a case-by-case basis.  \tMy Health Record is Australia's electronic health records system, given the green light in August 2017 from the Council of Australian Governments Health Council (COAG) to  \t \tBy 2018, all Australians will have a My Health Record, and by 2022, all healthcare providers will be able to contribute to and use health information stored in My Health Record on behalf of their patients. They will also be able to communicate with other healthcare providers on the clinical status of joint patients via the digital platform.  \tAustralians will be able to opt out of a My Health Record if they choose, and they similarly can opt out of having their data available for secondary use.  \tWhere a health record has been cancelled, the data also becomes unavailable for secondary use.         \tThe  \t33 items comprise the framework, with many requiring the Secondary Use of Data Governance Board to make the final decision on whether a third party can use the data.        \t \tThe board will comprise representatives from the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare (AIHW), which is the data custodian for the purposes of the framework; the Australian Digital Health Agency, which will act as the system operator; and representatives from population health/epidemiology, research, health services delivery, technology, data science, data governance and privacy, and consumer advocacy.  \tThere are 18 steps an entity wishing to access the information contained within the My Health Record must follow, including gaining \"ethics approval\" from the AIHW Ethics Committee.  \tThe board will oversee development and operation of all secondary use infrastructure, the framework explains.  \tFor example, the board will use a \"case and precedent\" approach to determine what is \"solely commercial use\" of data.  \tThe board will assess applications primarily based on the use of data, not the user, with the framework explaining the \"safe people\" principle will be applied when reviewing requests for data with respect to the applicant, probing their knowledge, skills, and incentives to store and use the data appropriately.  \tIn order to be granted access to the data, overseas-based applicants must be working in \"collaboration\" with an Australian applicant in respect to the proposed project. They must also demonstrate that the proposed data usage will generate public health benefits for Australians  \tDirect access to or release of My Health Record data is only to the Australian entity, and data released for secondary use is to be stored in a facility within Australia.  \tThe applicant must also be responsible for ensuring they comply with all relevant Australian legislation.  \tThe framework restricts access to de-identified data, noting it cannot be used solely for commercial and non-health-related purposes.  \tThe provision of My Health Record data to insurance agencies will also not be permitted at this stage, while the use of My Health Record data for clinical trials recruitment will not be considered until an explicit consent option is available in the My Health Record access controls.  \t\"There is a need to balance support for the use of the data for beneficial research and public health purposes against the policy of not using the data for solely commercial purposes,\" the framework reads. \"Commercial organisations may propose uses that could be approved so long as it can be demonstrated that the use is consistent with 'research and public health purposes' and is likely to generate public health benefits and/or be in the public interest.\"  \tWith  \tWhere an applicant seeks access to data from another repository such as the Medicare Benefits Schedule or Pharmaceutical Benefits Schedule data, they will be referred to the data custodian for those systems.  \tThe framework will be reviewed after two years of operation.  \t \tThe revelation that supposedly anonymous medical data can be re-identified tops off a year of data governance incompetence by the Australian government. But will there even be a response, let alone a fix?  \t \tThe Australian Privacy Foundation wants the federal government to act swiftly in ensuring the health information of citizens is safe from suffering the same fate as Equifax clients.  \t \tAustralia has performed an amazing act of self-leakage, selling a pair of locked filing cabinets of its own secret Cabinet documents.  \t \tThe Australian Privacy Foundation wants the government to develop security controls around sharing open data and provide the agency charged with investigating data misuse with 'adequate' resources.  \t \tAustralia is charging headlong into a privacy disaster as government open data initiatives come online without considering how to properly implement privacy safeguards and data anonymity.             Family Planning NSW website to remain offline until a security review and internal testing is completed.  Family Planning NSW has told customers their personal information may have been compromised after the not-for-profit fell victim to a ransomware attack.  The organisation provides advice on contraception, pregnancy, and sexual health, and it is believed the databases breached contained information on  It was confirmed to clients via email that the not-for-profit that provides vital assistance to the state suffered the breach on Anzac Day -- April 25, 2018.  \"Since the attack we have had no evidence that this information has been used by the cyber attackers,\" the email, signed off by chair Sue Carrick and chief executive Ann Brassil, said.  \"All web database information has been secure since this time and more sensitive medical records held internally were never under threat.\"         Those potentially caught up in the breach would have accessed the organisation's online services in the past two-and-a-half years.  The organisation said the situation has been \"contained\", but its website will remain offline until a security review and internal testing are completed.        Clients were told Family Planning NSW was one of several agencies targeted by criminals who requested ransom via bitcoin on the day of the attack.  \"We are conducting a thorough review of our information security to ensure all clients can continue to trust us for their reproductive and sexual health services,\" the email continues.  \"We understand that as a client who may have provided personal and/or health information through the appointment or feedback forms, you may be concerned by the potential breach. We'd like to reassure you again this form does not connect to our internal medical records.\" Family Planning NSW has five clinics throughout the state in Ashfield, Dubbo, Fairfield, Penrith, and the Hunter region, with more than 28,000 people visiting every year.  The Office of the Australian Information Commissioner (OAIC) reported last month it had   The  The NDB scheme requires agencies and organisations in Australia that are covered by the   According to the OAIC, 73 percent of eligible data breaches reported involved the personal information of less than 100 individuals, with just over half of the notifications involving the personal information of between one and nine individuals.  27 percent of notifications under the NDB scheme involved more than 100 individuals, the report highlighted.  The most common kind of breached information reported to the OAIC was contact information, which was the subject of 78 percent of the total breaches reported.  Health information was potentially compromised in 33 percent of the cases.  Intelligence agencies, not-for-profit organisations or small businesses with turnover of less than AU$3 million annually, credit reporting bodies, and political parties are exempt from the NDB.    Although 63 data breaches were reported to the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner in less than six weeks, FireEye's Mandiant has warned the figure is higher, but organisations are unsure if their breach fits the brief.   The Office of the Australian Information Commissioner has received 63 data breach notifications in first six weeks of the scheme's operation.   The Australian government department has confirmed the data compromise related to staff profiles from its previous credit card management system provided by Business Information Services.   The Australian government's My Health Record data use guidelines require the data governance board to make case-by-case decisions on how the data can be used.   Data breaches can be chaotic and stressful episodes. Learn the most effective actions you can take to help plan for these turbulent events.             Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) has said it has confirmed a set of vulnerabilities that have the potential to reveal the contents of email previously thought to be encrypted with PGP. EFF said in a \"Our advice, which mirrors that of the researchers, is to immediately disable and/or uninstall tools that automatically decrypt PGP-encrypted email,\" EFF said. \"Until the flaws described in the paper are more widely understood and fixed, users should arrange for the use of alternative end-to-end secure channels, such as Signal, and temporarily stop sending and especially reading PGP-encrypted email.\" In a The full details of the flaw are set for release at 7am UTC on Tuesday, which is 3am on the US eastern seaboard, midnight Pacific time, 5pm in Sydney, and 12:30pm in Mumbai. One of the researchers who discovered the exploit The foundation has created guides for disabling PGP in The Attorney-General's Department (AGD) has argued in favour of extending Australia's telecommunications interception laws from telcos to over-the-top providers. Speaking before the Joint Committee on Law Enforcement on Friday, AGD Assistant Secretary Andrew Warnes said this expansion would help combat the \"challenge of encryption\". \"The obligations that sit under the \"So when you now put on an intercept, that communication may be potentially encrypted, and you may not get information back that is in a usable form, or you may get information that takes some time for you to be able to decipher and use, and sometimes in circumstances of urgency. \"That's one of the challenges we're looking at; it's one that government has come out and said that we're actively working towards legislation on.\"        Also speaking during the hearing on Friday was Australian Criminal Intelligence Commission (ACIC) CEO Michael Phelan, who said the process of telco interceptions is becoming increasingly difficult due to new technologies, with 5G mobile networks to make this even harder.       According to Phelan, as of a year ago, around 60 percent of the traffic that law enforcement was dealing with in interception orders was data rather than voice, which he said will only increase when 5G networks arrive. \"When we move to systems like 5G -- 4G is problematic as is, but when you move to 5G, when identifiers don't exist for a device and they use dynamic IP addresses, then it will make it even difficult to use the metadata to track,\" Phelan told the committee. \"It's an evolving issue, so it's not lost upon anybody what we need to do for law enforcement to be able to continue to intercept.\" In a hearing that also included representatives from the Australian Institute of Criminology, Australian Border Force, and the Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions, Phelan argued that the legislation needs to be more device-agnostic in order to deal with advances in technology. This is because \"technology goes too quick for us, for the legislation to keep up with\", Phelan said, adding that it is never too early to begin preparing for 5G, with both \"We're coping, but over the horizon it will get worse,\" Phelan said. \"The legislation is still framed around a device and a person, whereas ... we're after parts and pieces of information regardless of the medium over which it travels. So if we want to intercept, what we want to do is have legislation that just says, 'look I want to intercept communications'. \"How those communications travel, what form those communications make, whether they're data, whether they're voice, whether they're on a device or anything, we want the legislation to be technology agnostic.\" In a bid to give additional intercept powers to law enforcement, the While the purpose of the data-retention legislation was to use retained data in an effort to combat national security threats such as terrorism, an AGD report in August revealed that it is During October 13, 2015, to June 30, 2016, the AGD report said illicit drug offences involved 57,166 authorisations to view telco data. This was followed by miscellaneous, homicide, robbery, fraud, theft, and abduction. Terrorism offences ranked below property damage and cybercrime, with 4,454 data retention authorisations made during that period. Vega Stealer malware is at the heart of a new campaign designed to harvest saved financial data from Google Chrome and Firefox browsers. \tWhile the new malware is only being utilized in simplistic and small phishing campaigns at the moment, \tVega Stealer is a variant of \tThe new malware has a subset of the same functionality but has also been upgraded with an arsenal of expanded features, including a new network communication protocol and Firefox stealing functionality. \tVega Stealer is also written in .NET and focuses on the theft of saved credentials and payment information in Google Chrome. These credentials include passwords, saved credit cards, profiles, and cookies.        \tWhen the Firefox browser is in use, the malware harvests specific files -- \"key3.db\" \"key4.db\", \"logins.json\", and \"cookies.sqlite\" -- which store various passwords and keys. \tHowever, Vega Stealer does not wrap up there. The malware also takes a screenshot of the infected machine and scans for any files on the system ending in .doc, .docx, .txt, .rtf, .xls, .xlsx, or .pdf for exfiltration.       \tAccording to the security researchers, the malware is currently being utilized to target businesses in marketing, advertising, public relations, retail, and manufacturing. \tThe phishing campaign designed to propagate the malware, however, is not sophisticated. Emails are sent with subject lines such as \"Online store developer required,\" and while some are targeted and sent to individuals at a business, most messages are sent to distribution lists including \"publicaffairs@\" and \"clientservice@\". \tThe email contains an attachment called \"brief.doc\" in which malicious macros download the Vega Stealer payload. \tThe payload is retrieved in two steps. The document first downloads an obfuscated JScript/PowerShell script which, once executed, creates a second request that pulls the executable payload of Vega Stealer from the threat actor's command-and-control (CC) center. \tThis payload is then saved in the victim's \"Music\" directory with the name \"ljoyoxu.pkzip.\" Once the executable is in place, Vega Stealer automatically executes via the command line in order to begin harvesting information. \t \tProofpoint believes that the document macro and URLs involved in the campaign may point towards the same threat actor responsible for campaigns spreading financial malware. However, such attribution is made tentatively. \"The document macro utilized in this campaign is a commodity macro that we believe is for sale and used by multiple actors, including the threat actor spreading Emotet banking Trojan,\" the researchers say. \"However, the URL patterns from which the macro retrieves the payload are the same as those used by an actor we are tracking who distributes the Ursnif banking Trojan, which often downloads secondary payloads such as Nymaim, Gootkit, or IcedID. As a result, we attribute this campaign to the same actor with medium confidence.\" \tProofpoint says that it remains to be seen whether or not Vega Stealer is simply a tweaked version of August Stealer developed for this specific campaign. However, the team does believe that due to the sophisticated delivery mechanism, Vega Stealer has the potential to evolve into a common threat. Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Some 90% of cybersecurity professionals are male, highlighting the continued challenge of diversity in the industry despite major salary and job satisfaction benefits, according to new stats from    The security vendor’s    It found the vast majority were male, with 71% possessing a bachelor’s degree.     This lack of diversity is especially frustrating given the huge benefits on offer to those who do decide on a career in cybersecurity.     Median salaries range from $75,000 – $100,000 per year, with 34% of respondents to the Exabeam poll claiming to earn more than $100,000 annually. In addition, over 80% said they feel secure about the future of their role and 86% would recommend a career in the industry to new graduates.  James Hadley, CEO of UK start-up “At Immersive Labs, we tackle the distinct lack of diversity in cyber head-on through our free Digital Cyber Academies for students and veterans and in the future, those with neurodiverse conditions and women returning to work,” he added.  “These academies allow people from all backgrounds a chance to develop real-life cyber-skills as well as provide a platform for a career in cybersecurity without any predisposed biases. Equally, they enable organizations to adopt a skills-led hiring process, removing the barrier and over-reliance on university computer science degrees.”  The   A third (32%) of respondents claimed to be using AI and machine learning already while nearly half (46%) said they’re planning to do so in the future.     Nearly three-quarters said they think AI will make their job better or easier.     However, a poll from    It’s thought that AI and machine learning could help the black hats better locate vulnerabilities in systems as well as learn and then mimic user behavior more effectively to trick traditional security and anti-fraud tools. \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                  Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Security experts are warning PGP users to disable tools that automatically decrypt PGP-encrypted email after the discovery of a critical vulnerability which could help attackers read protected emails.     The new research will be revealed in a paper on Tuesday morning, but those behind it and the    The latter said in a brief“Our advice, which mirrors that of the researchers, is to immediately disable and/or uninstall tools that automatically decrypt PGP-encrypted email. Until the flaws described in the paper are more widely understood and fixed, users should arrange for the use of alternative end-to-end secure channels, such as Signal, and temporarily stop sending and especially reading PGP-encrypted email.”  A more detailed explanation and analysis will be forthcoming once the research is formally released tomorrow, but the vulnerabilities are thought to affect both PGP and the S/MIME public key encryption standard.  The info was also posted on He said the vulnerabilities “might reveal the plaintext of encrypted emails, including encrypted emails sent in the past” and that there are no current fixes available.  However, Werner Koch, free software developer and author of the GNU Privacy Guard, He said attacks exploiting the vulnerabilities can be mitigated if users eschew HTML emails, or at least if they read them using a “proper MIME parser and disallow any access to external links.”  Another way would be to use authenticated encryption via tools such as OpenPGP, he argued.          \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Danish rail travelers found buying a ticket difficult yesterday, following a DDoS attack on the railway company    DSB has more than 195 million passengers every year but, as reported by    “We have all of our experts on the case,” said DSB spokesperson Aske Wieth-Knudsen, with all systems apparently working as normal this morning.     “The DDoS attack seen in Denmark this weekend on critical national infrastructure is precisely the type of attack that EU Governments are seeking to protect citizens against with last week’s introduction of the Network and Information Systems Directive (NIS),” said Andrew Lloyd, president,    “Keeping the control systems (e.g. railway signaling, power circuits and track movements) secure greatly reduces the risk of a catastrophic outcome that risks public safety. That said, a successful attack on the more vulnerable management systems can cause widespread disruption. This DDoS attack on Danish railways ticketing site can be added to a growing list of such cyber-attacks that include last October’s DDoS attack on the Swedish Railways that took out their train ordering system for two days resulting in travel chaos.     The lessons are clear, Lloyd added; transportation companies and other operators of essential services have to invest in proactive cybersecurity defenses to ensure that their services can stay online and open for business during a cyber-attack.     (Image: ZDNet)  If you booked train tickets for a European getaway in the past few months, you might want to check your bank statements.  Rail Europe, a site used by Americans to buy train tickets in Europe, has revealed a three-month data breach of credit cards and debit cards.  The announcement came  The company said credit card numbers, expiration dates, and card verification codes were stolen -- everything needed by a fraudster to carry out unauthorized purchases. The hackers also stole name, gender, delivery and invoicing addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, and in some cases usernames and passwords of customers on the website.         Users should change their passwords. If the same username and password set is used on any other site, they should be changed, too.  Rail Europe said it \"replaced and rebuilt\" compromised systems from known-to-be safe code. Although the company didn't say how the hackers breached its systems to install the credit card-skimming code, the letter added that passwords were changed and certificates were renewed following the hack.        It's not known how many customers are affected. California data breach law mandates that any breach affecting more than 500 state residents has to publicly list the breach notification with the state attorney general's office.  A spokesperson for Rail Europe did not return an email with questions sent prior to publication, including how many customers were hit by the breach.  According to the company's website, the site had over five million customers last year.                      Zack Whittaker can be reached securely on Signal and WhatsApp at 646-755–8849, and his PGP fingerprint for email is: 4D0E 92F2 E36A EC51 DAAE 5D97 CB8C 15FA EB6C EEA5.                                           Organisations which don't report that they've been the victim of cyber crime are putting others at risk of further attacks and are hampering the authorities' ability to fight against hackers, the UK's serious and organised crime unit has warned. The National Crime Agency has issued the warning to businesses as part of its  \"Under-reporting of data breaches continues to erode our ability to make robust assessment of the scale and cost of network intrusions,\" said the report, adding \"many companies are not disclosing data breaches, putting victims at risk\".  According to figures cited by the NCA, only 38 percent of people have confidence that law enforcement can properly respondent to 'cyber-dependent' crime, with the implication that this is partly why victims fail to report they've been hit.  Even when cybercrime is reported, the police may find themselves unable to convict the perpetrators, because \"those that do report may on occasion not be prepared to support prosecution, hampering the ability of law enforcement to act\".         The National Strategic Assessment of Serious and Organised crime suggests that the lack of successful cyber crime reporting means that cyber attackers believe that there's no consequences of their actions.  This perception is also driven along by the courts often handing out lenient sentences to those convicted of hacking, the NCA suggests - although no specific examples of this are provided.        \"Whilst courts acknowledge the seriousness of the crimes committed, the level of sentence passed does not necessarily reflect this seriousness, and can appear low,\" said the report.  According to the report, cyber criminal schemes at all levels continue to pose a threat to the UK, and while many of these groups are operating outside of UK borders, home-grown cyber criminals must not be underestimated.  \"The threat from UK domestic cyber criminals continues to mature, and these domestic actors are capable of damaging attacks,\" the report warns.  Almost all forms of cyber crime are on the rise, but one the National Crime Agency points to as particularly dangerous for UK businesses is the rise of While these attacks take additional time and resources for hackers to successfully carry out, they can be lucrative. Indeed, the F The sheer number of large data breaches is also fuelling an increase in fraud and phishing, as criminals are able to get their hands on sensitive data to help carry out attacks.  The NCA notes that with  However, the report notes that despite there only being weeks to go until GDPR comes into force,  But there's one thing the NCA points to as a certainty - that cybercriminals and crime groups will continue to target the UK. \"The increasing sophistication of crime groups, coupled with the changing nature of their geographical reach, demonstrates more than ever the requirement for an increasingly co-ordinated response,\" said NCA Director General Lynne Owens   \"Working alongside our law enforcement, intelligence and other partners, we are changing the way we operate to ensure the biggest possible impact. We will use this intelligence assessment to build on our operational successes and evidence why further investment in capabilities and capacity is necessary.\"  Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Cybercriminals have options when it comes to choosing their attack weapons, which is why malware authors are likely grateful to those criminals who choose to target unpatched server vulnerabilities with crypto-mining malware.  According to the latest Researchers analyzed threat data from a network of sensors and millions of data points across the globe and saw a trend in cyber-criminals targeting known vulnerabilities even though patches have been available for at least six months.  The According to a Check Point researcher team Attackers targeted 46% of global organizations for the known vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows Server 2003 (CVE-2017-7269). Another 40% of global organizations were targeted for the Oracle WebLogic (CVE-2017-10271) vulnerability.  Designed to mine Monero without the user’s knowledge, the Coinhive variant held onto the top spot as the most prevalent malware at a global reach of 16%. \"Cryptoloot – another crypto-mining malware – was close behind with a global reach of 14%,” researchers wrote.  \"With crypto-mining malware’s consistent growth, cyber-criminals are innovating their techniques in order to find new ways to exploit victims’ machines and net more revenue,” Maya Horowitz, threat intelligence group manager at Check Point, The findings likely comes as no surprise, given the recent news that at least seven tech giants Addressing Microsoft Windows Server and Oracle WebLogic, Horowitz said, “It is troubling that so many organizations were impacted by these known vulnerabilities, especially as patches for both have been available for at least 6 months.\"  With the high number of global organizations being targeted by these attacks, Robert Corradini, director of product management at   \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 The Russian Federation Council’s Commission on Protecting State Sovereignty and Preventing Foreign Interference has come out with its latest A new report due out by the end of the month claims that Western states tried to discredit Putin and “divide” his administration, in order to “isolate” him. The commission has apparently gleaned 10 different kinds of foreign meddling in Russia’s elections, including “publicly promoting from outside Russia” certain presidential candidates, cyber-attacking Russia’s Central Elections Commission, and funding sociological surveys.            (Screenshot: ZDNet. Source: Four of the largest cell giants in the US are selling your real-time location data to a company that you've probably never heard about before. In case you missed it,                      Real-time location data was accessible by police under \"the legal equivalent of a pinky promise,\" said a senator.                                           The story blew up because a former police sheriff snooped on phone location data without a warrant, Yet little is known about how LocationSmart obtained the real-time location data on millions of Americans, how the required consent from cell user owners was obtained, and who else has access to the data. Kevin Bankston, director of New America's Open Technology Institute, explained in a phone call that the Electronic Communications Privacy Act only restricts telecom companies from disclosing data to the government. It doesn't restrict disclosure to other companies, who then may disclose that same data to the government.        He called that loophole \"one of the biggest gaps in US privacy law.\" \"The issue doesn't appear to have been directly litigated before, but because of the way that the law only restricts disclosures by these types of companies to government, my fear is that they would argue that they can do a pass-through arrangement like this,\" he said.       LocationSmart, a California-based technology company, is one of a handful of so-called data aggregators. It The company boasts coverage of 95 percent of the country, thanks to its access to all the major US carriers, including US Cellular, Virgin, Boost, and MetroPCS, as well as Canadian carriers, like Bell, Rogers, and Telus.  \"We utilize the same technology used to enable emergency assistance and this includes cell tower and cell sector location, assisted GPS and cell tower trilateration,\" said a case study on the company's website.  \"With these location sources, we are able to locate virtually any US based mobile devices,\" the company claimed. A person's precise location can be returned in as little as 15 seconds, according to another case study, and data is usually not cached for longer than two minutes. Other companies then buy access to LocationSmart's data -- or the data is obtained by a customer of LocationSmart, like 3Cinteractive, which is said to have supplied location data to Securus.  But LocationSmart hasn't said how it ensures its corporate customers protect the location data to prevent abuse and misuse. A spokesperson for LocationSmart did not return an email with several questions sent prior to publication.  Companies buy into LocationSmart's location data for many reasons. Sometimes it's to help locate a nearby store, or to send a marketing text message when a person visits a rival store. Location data can even be used by companies to track deliveries or shipments, or by banks to fight fraud, such as if a person is making card transactions miles apart within just a few minutes of each other.  In any case, the company LocationSmart also said it allows some customers to obtain \"implied\" consent, used on a case-by-case basis, when \"the nature of the service implies that location will be used.\" The company said one example could be when a stranded motorist calls roadside assistance, and the event implies the person is \"calling to be found.\" The company even has (Screenshot: ZDNet)The data aggregator said While that may be true, the requirement to obtain a person's consent collapses if a search warrant for that data is issued. That's exactly how companies like Securus can reveal location data without asking a person's permission. According to However, as We reached out to the four major US carriers prior to publication. We asked how each carrier obtains consent from customers to sell their data and what safeguards they put in place to prevent abuse.  Sprint spokesperson Lisa Belot said the company shares personally identifiable location data \"only with customer consent or in response to a lawful request such as a validated court order from law enforcement.\"  The company's Sprint said the company's relationship with Securus \"does not include data sharing,\" and is limited \"to supporting efforts to curb unlawful use of contraband cell phones in correctional facilities.\" When asked the same questions, Verizon spokesperson Rich Young provided a boilerplate response regarding Securus and would not comment further. \"We're still trying to verify their activities, but if this company is, in fact, doing this with our customers' data, we will take steps to stop it,\" he said.  ATT spokesperson Jim Greer said in a statement: \"We have a best practices approach to handling our customers' data. We are aware of the letter and will provide a response.\" Our questions were also not answered. A spokesperson for T-Mobile did not respond by our deadline. \"It's important for us to close off that potential loophole and that can easily be done with one line of legislative language,\" said Bankston, \"which would also have the benefit of making every other company careful about always getting consent before disclosing your data to anyone.\" Ron Wyden, a Democratic senator from Oregon, called on each carrier to stop sharing data with third parties. Wyden argued the sharing \"skirts wireless carriers' legal obligation to be the sole conduit by which the government may conduct surveillance of Americans' phone records.\" In a blog post, Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) said law enforcement Wyden has also called on the FCC to investigate the carriers for allegedly not obtaining user consent.  The FCC has not said yet if it willsaid if it will investigate.                      Zack Whittaker can be reached securely on Signal and WhatsApp at 646-755–8849, and his PGP fingerprint for email is: 4D0E 92F2 E36A EC51 DAAE 5D97 CB8C 15FA EB6C EEA5.                                           Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 After targeting teachers with a phishing scam, a 16-year-old student at Ygnacio Valley High School was reportedly arrested by police in Concord, California, on 10 May. The young man hacked into the computer system of Mount Diablo Unified School District and changed not only his grades but those of other students as well.  \"We wrote numerous search warrants to get the IP addresses of the possible phishing site email. We got it and we did good old fashioned police detective work and we narrowed it down to an address,\" Sgt. Carl Cruz, the Concord Police financial crimes supervisor told Investigators traced the attack back to the student’s house, revealing that the messages were part of a phishing campaign. A malicious link within the messages directed the email recipients to a fake website.  Once on the fraudulent, student-created site, which mirrored the school’s portal, teachers were prompted to enter their user credentials. “The site would record any information entered, allowing the student to hijack the teacher’s account,” “This was a classic credential harvesting phishing scam – basic security awareness training could have prevented this attack. Maybe it was the teacher, but, whatever the reason, it’s no secret that the education sector has limited finances and cybersecurity is not a top priority,” said Bob Adams, cybersecurity expert, Police believe the student changed the grades of 10–15 students, raising some, while lowering others. Because the student is a juvenile, his name remains withheld; however, he has been arrested on 14 felony counts.  In related news, another student in East Brewton, Alabama, who also Escambia County superintendent of education John Knott wrote in an email today, \"W. S. Neal High school administrators reported discrepancies where grades on report cards didn't match their transcripts. We reported our findings to the Alabama State Department of Education and law enforcement and began an investigation into the matter. We have also brought in additional resources that could aide in this investigation to determine the facts and resolve this matter.      \"We are determined to make sure the records are correct, to ascertain how these changes happened, and hold all that may be involved accountable. We are working to complete this process in order to release to the top 10 students, including the valedictorian and salutatorian, by graduation.\"    High school hacking is nothing new, nor are phishing scams.   “Unfortunately, there isn’t one industry deemed ‘safe’ when it comes to targeted attacks. Hospitals, religious organizations, charities and even schools have all been, and will continue to be, targeted by any number of individuals for any number of reasons,” said Adams.  According to a “No matter what the size or type of organization, it only takes one employee and one click to open you up to risk,” said Greg Sim, CEO of Glasswall Solutions.    \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 \tOn Tuesday, the cybersecurity firm said that \"a number of core processes\" will be shifted from Russia, including customer data storage systems and processing \"for most regions.\" By the end of 2019, Kaspersky Lab hopes to have moved the infrastructure used for US customer data storage and processing to Zurich. Customer data from Europe, Singapore, Australia, Japan, and South Korea will also be moved, with other countries to follow. The company, headquartered in Moscow, Russia, says the transition is part of the Global Transparency Initiative. In 2017, the US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) ordered federal agencies to According to the agency, Russian laws allows the Kremlin to potentially lean on Kaspersky Lab to perform cyberespionage and intercept communications connected to Russian networks.       The DHS suggested that due to these laws, the Russian government could use Kaspersky products as a conduit to compromise US national security. The cybersecurity firm has firmly denied these accusations, as well as having \"inappropriate ties to any government, including Russia.\" The \"The new measures are the next steps in the development of the initiative, but they also reflect the company's commitment to working with others to address the growing challenges of industry fragmentation and a breakdown of trust,\" the cybersecurity firm says. \"Trust is essential in cybersecurity, and Kaspersky Lab understands that trust is not a given; it must be repeatedly earned through transparency and accountability.\" Kaspersky also intends to relocate the tools used to assemble software to Zurich, and by the end of 2018, the company says that both Kaspersky Lab products and threat detection rule databases will begin to be assembled and signed off in the country. \"The relocation will ensure that all newly assembled software can be verified by an independent organization, and show that software builds and updates received by customers match the source code provided for audit,\" Kaspersky added. The transition of systems and data will be overseen by an unnamed independent third party that is based in Switzerland.  In addition, the cybersecurity firm has pledged to open its first Transparency Center in Switzerland this year. Eventually, the center will make the source code of Kaspersky products available for review by stakeholders. \"In a rapidly changing industry such as ours, we have to adapt to the evolving needs of our clients, stakeholders and partners,\" said Eugene Kaspersky, CEO of Kaspersky Lab. \"Transparency is one such need, and that is why we've decided to redesign our infrastructure and move our data processing facilities to Switzerland. We believe such action will become a global trend for cybersecurity, and that a policy of trust will catch on across the industry as a key basic requirement.\" Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 As many as five Mexican banks may have been targeted by what appears to be a highly co-ordinated cyber-attack in which unauthorized transfers were made to bogus accounts.  The campaign seems to have focused on the domestic SPEI transfer network, and as such is reminiscent of the recent spate of sophisticated attacks on the global SWIFT inter-bank messaging system.  Lorenza Martinez, head of Banxico’s payment system, told Reuters that five lenders had seen unauthorized transfers and that they are currently running analysis to see if malicious insiders were involved.  SPEI itself is not thought to have been compromised but rather the software used by banks to connect to it, she added.  One source close to the government investigation into the incident The campaign calls to mind an ongoing spate of attacks on the SWIFT network, which began with an Since then, tens of millions have been stolen from Taiwan’s Far Eastern International Bank, as well as lenders in Russian, Ukraine and other countries, all targeting the SWIFT network in some way.  Fred Kniep, CEO of “As the SWIFT Network learned after an attack on a member bank led to a costly breach, it only takes one vulnerability for attackers to gain access to your network and ride in on a trusted connection,” he added.     “Cyber-criminals are increasingly targeting third parties — suppliers, contractors, vendors and, in this case a software provider used by the central bank's SPEI interbank transfer system — to breach high-value networks. Collaboration and information sharing at all levels are the keys to effectively mitigating the persistent and potentially damaging threats posed by attackers.”    \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Kaspersky Lab has announced it will open a new data center in Switzerland to handle all data for customers in key markets like Europe, North America and Australia in a bid to improve transparency and rebuild trust following a challenging year for the company.  The Russian AV vendor has found itself at the center of a geopolitical storm after its products were banned for US federal government use The UK’s CEO Eugene Kaspersky has always maintained his company is innocent of any wrongdoing and never colluded with the Kremlin.  In fact, its Global Transparency Initiative was As well as data on Western customers plus those in Singapore, Japan and South Korea, the facility will host a “software build conveyer” — tools used to assemble ready-to-use software out of source code.  The vendor claimed that before the end of this year it would start to assemble and sign products and AV databases in Zurich before distributing them around the world.  A Transparency Center will also open in the Swiss city later this year, offering stakeholders the opportunity to review the firm’s source code  “In a rapidly changing industry such as ours we have to adapt to the evolving needs of our clients, stakeholders and partners. Transparency is one such need, and that is why we’ve decided to redesign our infrastructure and move our data processing facilities to Switzerland,” said Kaspersky in a statement.  “We believe such action will become a global trend for cybersecurity, and that a policy of trust will catch on across the industry as a key basic requirement.”    \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Adobe has issued fixes for 47 CVEs, including multiple critical vulnerabilities, less than a week after it released a scheduled set of Patch Tuesday updates.  Bulletin According to Adobe, the updates address vulnerabilities “whose successful exploitation could lead to arbitrary code execution in the context of the current user.”  Of the 24 critical CVEs, CVE-2018-4947, CVE-2018-4948, CVE-2018-4966, CVE-2018-4968, CVE-2018-4978, CVE-2018-4982, and CVE-2018-4984 are heap overflow vulnerabilities.  The final bunch of 13 vulnerabilities — CVE-2018-4946, CVE-2018-4952, CVE-2018-4954, CVE-2018-4958, CVE-2018-4959, CVE-2018-4961, CVE-2018-4971, CVE-2018-4974, CVE-2018-4977, CVE-2018-4980, CVE-2018-4983, CVE-2018-4988, and CVE-2018-4989 — are use-after-free flaws.  The remaining “important” rated CVEs range from security bypass and out-of-bounds read laws to memory corruption, NTLM SSO hash theft and HTTP POST new line injection via XFA submission.  They could allow information disclosure and security bypass, according to Adobe.  The firm also issued bulletin “Adobe has released updates for Photoshop CC for Windows and macOS,” the summary noted.  “These updates resolve a critical vulnerability in Photoshop CC 19.1.3 and earlier 19.x versions, as well as 18.1.3 and earlier 18.x versions. Successful exploitation could lead to arbitrary code execution in the context of the current user.”  The security updates follow last week’s Amid an accounting investigation, Symantec executives outlined their outlook for future quarters and highlighted how the company's products are becoming more subscription based with recurring revenue revolving around 3 year terms. The word of the day for Symantec was \"ratable.\" In fact, ratable was mentioned 43 times as CEO Greg Clark and CFO Nicholas Noviello talked to analysts during a conference call just 4 days after the last one. Symantec shares were hammered last week after the company disclosed an accounting probe spurred by a former employee.                       The technology world has spent so much of the past two decades focused on innovation that security has often been an afterthought. Learn how and why it is finally changing.                                           When Symantec reported earnings last week and Symantec didn't have a lot to say about the beginning of the accounting investigation, but did say it would halt buybacks and freeze executive pay until the issues were resolved. The official line on the investigation is as follows: Now the main mission for Clark and Noviello was to highlight how Symantec's outlook is solid. The executives were confident about Symantec's enterprise business, which is moving to as-a-service and recurring revenue based on three year contracts. In other words, Symantec's business model is going to look like most software-as-a-service companies in the future.         Clark noted: All of that sounds good, but analysts zoomed in on the ratable discussion. Symantec talked about ratables more in terms of billings not revenue. Enter even more confusion. Add it up and Symantec's call, which highlighted a bevy of positive points, also may have just added to the accounting confusion.        Overall, Symantec projected revenue growth in the mid to high single digits for fiscal year 2020. Enterprise security will see sales growth of high single digits to low double digits. Consumer digital safety will see sales growth of low to mid single digits.  The analyst research notes on Tuesday indicated that Symantec's accounting investigation will continue to cast a pall over the company. Simply put, Symantec needs to hit its targets over time to win Wall Street back.  Stifel analyst Gur Talpaz said in a research note: In our view, despite management's assurance that no material adverse impact to the company's historical financial results stemming from the outcome of the company's internal investigation into claims made by a former employee is currently expected, we are not in the business of speculation, and we lack the necessary color at this time to fully understand the potential financial consequences of this investigation.  Further, in regard to Symantec's enterprise security business, management has yet to prove, in our view, that they have a firm grasp on the pace at which the consumption preference of customers has shifted away from perpetual license contracts to cloud-based subscriptions and, consequently, this trend's impact on the company's operating model. We would like to see management effectively execute against its stated targets in a more consistent manner.  BTIG analyst Joel Fishbein also noted that Symantec took a solid first step, but there are multiple questions surrounding the company. \"We appreciate management's decision to host the briefing, but questions still remain surrounding what impact the investigation may have on future financials and guidance,\" said Fishbein.                                  \tAdobe has released a large security update which tackles 47 vulnerabilities only a week after the firm's customary monthly patch round. The latest patch update impacts Adobe Acrobat and Reader for Windows and MacOS, alongside Adobe Photoshop CC for Windows and macOS. Security updates for Acrobat DC impact the consumer version 2018.011.20038 and earlier, as well as Classic 2015 versions 2015.006.30417 and earlier. The consumer version of Acrobat Reader DC versions 2018.011.20038 and earlier, as well as Classic 2017 versions 2017.011.30079 and earlier, and Classic 2015 versions 2015.006.30417 and earlier are affected. Adobe Acrobat 2017 versions 2018.011.20038 and earlier are also impacted by this security update.        In total, 24 vulnerabilities resolved in these updates are deemed critical. If exploited, successful attacks may result in arbitrary code execution in the context of the current user. The resolved critical bugs include a double free problem, seven heap overflow vulnerabilities, 13 use-after-free bugs, a type confusion issue, an untrusted pointer dereference error and one out-of-bounds write security flaw.       In addition, Adobe has patched a plethora of out-of-bounds read, type confusion security vulnerabilities, and memory corruption problems which could lead to information leaks. When it comes to Adobe Photoshop CC, the tech giant's According to Adobe, exploitation of the lone out-of-bounds write bug could lead to arbitrary code execution in the context of the current user. Adobe says that no reports have been received which suggest these vulnerabilities are being exploited in the wild.  However, users are recommended to update their builds as soon as possible. Last week, Adobe's One critical type confusion vulnerability was resolved which could allow attackers to perform remote code execution in Flash. Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Active insider threats are present in 100% of organizations, with companies failing to eliminate insider threat blind spots, according to new research from    The user behavior intelligence provider analyzed anonymized data about user behaviors taking place on public and private sector organizations’ endpoints in North America, South America and Europe. The data was compared to more than 5000 known bad-behavior patterns and then turned into intelligence that revealed where insider threat patterns were active.     The findings showed that 90% of assessments discovered that negligent employees were transferring company data to unencrypted and unauthorized USB devices, with 91% indicating that negligent employees were expanding the phishing attack surface by accessing personal web mail accounts on company machines – a behavior up 4% in the last 12 months.     What’s more, the research also highlighted issues surrounding the improper use of cloud apps such as Google Drive and Dropbox with 78% of assessments discovering instances of company data being accessible via the public web.     In terms of malicious intent, 67% of assessments uncovered cases where employees were visiting inappropriate and risky gaming, gambling and pornography websites – up 8% from last year – whilst 60% identified instances where malicious employees were using anonymous and VPN browsing to bypass security controls or to research how to bypass controls.     “While malicious users are always looking for new ways to defy security controls, not all internal risk comes from bad intent,” said Christy Wyatt, CEO, Dtex Systems. “Negligent employees don’t always understand when they are engaged in damaging activities. These trusted users can fall prey to bad actors looking to steal their credentials. The lack of visibility into all types of user behaviors is creating employee-driven vulnerability problems for every business.     “Organizations have to secure data, neutralize risky behaviors and protect trusted employees against attacks and their own errors. To accomplish all of this, they have to see how their people are behaving and have a mechanism that provides alerts when things are go wrong.”     “Business needs to get out of the cybersecurity denial phase it is stuck in. To do this, it must accept that it needs more visibility into what’s going on in its environment,” added \tA new report into the state of enterprise security suggests that the majority of codebases in use contain known vulnerabilities due to the use of open-source components. On Tuesday, Open-source projects, software, and library adoption have become a common theme in the enterprise. Open-source systems can save a vast amount of time and money for developers and businesses alike and many well-known players in fields ranging from technology to core services use open-source components on a daily basis. However, the nature of open-source projects means that as developers are giving away their time for free, sometimes, bugs may escape the net and cause chaos further down the line unless users and staff are aware of its use and maintain regular security checks. In 2017, for example, Equifax In the same year, Black Duck Software researchers found through an audit of 1,000 commonly-used applications in the enterprise that 96 percent utilized open-source software, and over Some of the bugs found were over four years old.       It seems little has changed. The Burlington, Mass.,-based firm's After auditing a total of 1,100 commercial databases used by companies in industries including cybersecurity, automotive, healthcare, manufacturing, and mobile applications, the average number of open-source components found per codebase was 257, an uptick of 75 percent over a 12-month period. However, 78 percent of the codebases examined contained at least one security vulnerability due to open-source components, and on average, 64 vulnerabilities per codebase were found. Many of the security flaws uncovered in the codebases were publicly disclosed as far back as six years ago. According to the researchers, over 54 percent of the vulnerabilities found are critical issues, and 17 percent contained well-known bugs such as  In total, eight percent of the databases utilized Apache Struts, and 33 percent of these codebases contained the vulnerability (Perhaps ironically, the most vulnerabilities were present in codebases used in the IT  software infrastructure industry, and cybersecurity systems, at 67 percent and 41 percent respectively. \"Since modern software and infrastructure depend heavily on open-source technologies, having a clear view of components in use is a key part of corporate governance,\" said Tim Mackey, Technical Evangelist at Black Duck by Synopsys. \"With the growth in open-source use, organizations need to ensure they have the tools to detect vulnerabilities in open-source components and manage whatever license compliance their use of open source may require.\" Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Active insider threats are present in 100% of organizations, with companies failing to eliminate insider threat blind spots, according to new research from    The user behavior intelligence provider analyzed anonymized data about user behaviors taking place on public and private sector organizations’ endpoints in North America, South America and Europe. The data was compared to more than 5000 known bad-behavior patterns and then turned into intelligence that revealed where insider threat patterns were active.     The findings showed that 90% of assessments discovered that negligent employees were transferring company data to unencrypted and unauthorized USB devices, with 91% indicating that negligent employees were expanding the phishing attack surface by accessing personal web mail accounts on company machines – a behavior up 4% in the last 12 months.     What’s more, the research also highlighted issues surrounding the improper use of cloud apps such as Google Drive and Dropbox with 78% of assessments discovering instances of company data being accessible via the public web.     In terms of malicious intent, 67% of assessments uncovered cases where employees were visiting inappropriate and risky gaming, gambling and pornography websites – up 8% from last year – whilst 60% identified instances where malicious employees were using anonymous and VPN browsing to bypass security controls or to research how to bypass controls.     “While malicious users are always looking for new ways to defy security controls, not all internal risk comes from bad intent,” said Christy Wyatt, CEO, Dtex Systems. “Negligent employees don’t always understand when they are engaged in damaging activities. These trusted users can fall prey to bad actors looking to steal their credentials. The lack of visibility into all types of user behaviors is creating employee-driven vulnerability problems for every business.     “Organizations have to secure data, neutralize risky behaviors and protect trusted employees against attacks and their own errors. To accomplish all of this, they have to see how their people are behaving and have a mechanism that provides alerts when things are go wrong.”     “Business needs to get out of the cybersecurity denial phase it is stuck in. To do this, it must accept that it needs more visibility into what’s going on in its environment,” added Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 The security industry has long lagged behind cybercriminals when it comes to sharing intelligence. But the trend toward building partnerships in order to protect businesses, governments and consumers from cybercrimes in today’s fast-expanding threat landscape is on the rise.  In a A branch of Europol, the European Cybercrime Center (EC3) was created in 2013 to better protect EU citizens, businesses and governments against cybercrimes. EC3 head of business Steve Wilson anticipates that the partnership will enhance law enforcement's ability to both prevent and disrupt crime.  \"Working co-operation of this type between Europol and industry is the most effective way in which we can hope to secure cyberspace for European citizens and businesses. I am confident that the high level of expertise that BT bring will result in a significant benefit to our Europe-wide investigations,\" Wilson said.  In early 2018, BT launched its free, collaborative platform for sharing malware information, which enabled the company to start sharing intelligence on malicious software and websites with other ISPs. BT has since identified more than 200,000 domains and shared actionable intelligence that has allowed customers to better defend against specific threats.  With the goal of creating a safer digital world, the agreement between BT and Europol is an important step forward when it comes to bridging the worlds of the private and public sectors.   “We’re working with other law enforcement agencies in a similar vein to better share cyber security intelligence, expertise and best practice to help them expose and take action against the organised gangs of cyber criminals lurking in the dark corners of the web. The signing of today’s accord with Europol sees BT take another significant step forward in making the internet a safer place for consumers, businesses and public sector bodies in the UK, Europe and beyond,” said Kevin Brown, VP, BT security threat intelligence.       \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 A newly-uncovered form of DDoS attack takes advantage of a well-known, yet still exploitable, security vulnerability in the Universal Plug and Play (UPnP) networking protocol to allow attackers to bypass common methods for detecting their actions. Attacks are launched from irregular source ports, making it difficult to determine their origin and blacklist the ports in order to protect against future incidents. The new form of distributed denial-of-service attack has been uncovered and detailed by The UPnP protocol is commonly used for device discovery, The protocol is still used, despite known issues around poor default settings, lack of authentication, and UPnP-specific remote code execution vulnerabilities, which make the devices vulnerable to attack.  \"Just like the much-discussed case of easily exploitable IoT devices, most UPnP device vendors prefer focusing on compliance with the protocol and easy delivery, rather than security,\" Avishay Zawoznik, security research team leader at Imperva, told ZDNet. \"Many vendors reuse open UPnP server implementations for their devices, not bothering to modify them for a better security performance.\" Examples of problems with the protocol go all the way back to 2001, but the simplicity of using it means it is still widely deployed. However, Imperva researchers claim the discovery of how it can be used to make DDoS attacks more difficult to attack could mean widespread problems. \"We have discovered a new DDoS attack technique, which uses known vulnerabilities, and has the potential to put any company with an online presence at risk of attack,\" said Zawoznik.  Researchers first noticed something was new during a Simple Service Discovery Protocol (SSDP) attack in April. This type of botnet tends to be small and spoofs their victim's IP addresses in order to query common internet connected devices such as routers, printers and access points. While most of the attacks were arriving from the usual SSDP port number of 1900, around 12 percent of payloads were arriving from randomised source ports. Imperva investigated and found that a UPnP-integrated attack method could be used to hide source port information. Attackers could easily find devices to take advantage of In order to not fall victim to this, businesses \"should  come up with a DDoS protection that is based on the packet payloads, rather than source ports only,\" said Zawoznik. However, researchers note that there is a relatively simple way to protect systems from this and other UNPnP exploits: just block the device from being remotely accessible, because in the vast majority of cases, they note, \"it serves no useful function or has any benefit for device users\". \t\tAs the enterprise transitions towards the cloud, mobile, and next-generation technologies, a critical need has emerged to secure applications and authenticate users, keep cyberattackers at bay, and maintain control over business-critical systems and information. This is where Identity-as-a-Service (IDaaS) solutions come in. IDaaS providers utilize cloud technology for authentication purposes, catering for multiple authentication requirements, single sign-on systems, and privilege-related access to data while saving time and resources. Bellevue, WA-based Auth0 is best known for its IDaaS Universal Identity Platform, which secures web, mobile, Internet of Things (IoT), and internal applications. The firm says it secures over 1.5 billion logins per month and caters for customers in over 70 countries.        Current clients include VMware, AMD, Mazda, NVIDIA, and News Corp. It appears that investors in the technology field have taken an interest in IDaaS, considering the success of Auth0's latest series D funding round.       The firm secured a fresh cash injection of $55 million through the round, led by Sapphire Ventures. Other participants included World Innovation Lab, Bessemer Venture Partners, Trinity Ventures, Meritech Capital, and K9 Ventures. Auth0 says that the funding will be used to \"continue innovation of the company's Universal Identity Platform, accelerate go-to-market programs, and drive global expansion.\" \"We are humbled by the support from our investors, and emboldened in our mission to provide the most extensible, powerful, and easy-to-use identity management solution available,\" said Eugenio Pace, CEO, and co-founder of Auth0. \"We look forward to using these funds to make our product and company even better, and to continue offering value to our incredible customers around the world.\" \tThe latest funding builds upon four previous rounds which raised a collective $54.3 million. To date, Auth0 has secured over $110 million from investors. \"Our goal is to identify companies that demonstrate consistent high growth in an industry that has incredible market potential,\" said Anders Ranum, Partner at Sapphire Ventures. \"Between the outstanding leadership of the company and their disruptive technology offering, Auth0 offers that unique combination and then some. We are incredibly excited to take this journey together and help them scale to global market leadership.\" Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 As more vulnerabilities are reported, efforts to patch them can't keep pace. Yet the number of publicly disclosed vulnerabilities continues to rise. In fact, according to the The report looked at 5,375 vulnerabilities published during the first three months of 2018 and found an increase of 1.8% over the same period last year. Of all the Q1 disclosures, eight vendors accounted for 22.9% of the vulnerabilities.  Risk Based Security published 1,790 more vulnerabilities than common vulnerability exposures (CVEs) in Q1, suggesting that \"organizations relying on CVE or sources solely obtaining data from CVE are missing a significant number of disclosed vulnerabilities,\" the report said.  Additionally, web-related vulnerabilities represent almost half (47.5%) of all Q1 2018 vulnerabilities and 49.1% of all publicly disclosed vulnerabilities able to be remotely exploited.  \"As more and more vulnerabilities are reported, organizations are forced to spend an increasing amount of time and resources to stay properly informed about the weaknesses affecting their IT infrastructure and applications,\" the report said.   Organizations continue to grapple with vulnerability intelligence. Vulnerability disclosure and the issue of organizations better managing vulnerabilities are what many are looking to address of late.  A new report from Kenna Security and In 2017, businesses were challenged with addressing an average of 40 new vulnerabilities every day, and 2018 is expected to meet or exceed those numbers. Yet \"out of the thousands of new vulnerabilities published every year, the vast majority (77%) never have exploits developed, and even fewer (less than 2%) are actively used in an attack,\" the reported stated.  “Effective remediation depends on quickly determining which vulnerabilities warrant action and which of those have highest priority, but prioritization remains one of the biggest challenges in vulnerability management,' Karim Toubba, CEO, Kenna Security said in a      \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 When nation-state attacks are discussed, most people immediately think of those well-known adversaries in North Korea, China, and Russia, but reported new activity is coming from seemingly benign states such as Lebanon and the Netherlands.  According to an annual report published by These lesser-known nation states are using more traditional means of exploits, with combinations of open source and custom-built tools. \"They, and other actors like them, will continue to become more disruptive as they refine their tactics,\" the report said.   Though its difficult to discern the motivation for the increased attack activity, both countries made headlines this year with cyber-attacks.    Lebanon used an Android malware campaign to spy on thousands of people across 20 countries. \"One of the more notable groups in 2017 was the Lebanese General Directorate of General Security, or Bld3F6. They were identified as being behind the Dark Caracal attacks in which the group used various techniques to harvest data,\" the report said.     Then the Dutch experienced a taste of the limelight when they uncovered the hack of the Democratic National Committee during the 2016 presidential election in the US by penetrating Russia’s Cozy Bear organization.   While China continues to top the charts with its nation-sponsored attack activity, aspects of these these lesser-known nation-states give cause for concern. \"These groups have shown that the bar for conducting successful operations is not as high as one might think, and that they can hide within the noise of modern day networks for as long as needed,\" the report said.  Regardless of their infamy, nation-states are evolving in their attack vectors with the goal of using more social media to influence the opinions and actions of large populations. According to the report, \"2017 saw the trend of state-sponsored exploits shift from cyber-physical to cyber-social with interference in several elections across Europe. 2018 is showing sharp repercussions for this information warfare with criminal indictments.\"  Using cyber-social attacks on European and American elections, Russia showed the relative ease with which it could pull off these cost-effective attacks. Based on its research, Optiv anticipates this class of attack will be exploited by a growing number of nation-states, hacktivists and other groups in the future.     \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 (Image: file photo)The Trump administration no longer has a cybersecurity coordinator. The job, seen as the most senior cybersecurity role in the government, was eliminated Tuesday by White House national security advisor John Bolton.  The position was designed to help coordinate efforts across government, but it had come under fire in recent weeks Geller The role was seen as vitally important by many -- including Congress -- following Mark Warner, a Democratic senator and vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, tweeted shortly before the news was announced that the government \"should be investing in our nation's cyber defense, not rolling it back.\"  \"We also need to articulate a clear cyber doctrine. I don't see how getting rid of the top cyber official in the White House does anything to make our country safer from cyber threats,\" he said. The White House's own economic policy advisors estimate that cyberattacks and malicious cyber activities cost the US economy as much as $109 billion in 2016 alone. A spokesperson for the White House National Security Council did not respond to a request for comment.                      Zack Whittaker can be reached securely on Signal and WhatsApp at 646-755–8849, and his PGP fingerprint for email is: 4D0E 92F2 E36A EC51 DAAE 5D97 CB8C 15FA EB6C EEA5.                                             Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Facebook has found itself at the center of another privacy storm this week after it emerged that an app developer stored highly sensitive profile information on over three million users on a poorly secured website for years.  Developers of the myPersonality app harvested details including age, gender and relationship status from 4.3 million users of the app as well as psychological personality scores from 3.1 million users and status updates from over 150,000 people, according to the The names of the users were then removed and the data stored on a site for registered academics and researchers at firms including Facebook, Google and Microsoft to query.  However, a publicly available username and password could be easily found on GitHub for four years. It is also thought that deanonymizing the data for many of the victims would be fairly easy given the wide range of information collected by the app and tied to unique user IDs.  Although in this case the app’s developers are said to have refused overtures from the notorious political ads firm to access the data, Kogan was a collaborator on the project until 2014.  The case once again highlights the privacy challenges facing Facebook from rogue app developers and will add further weight to the argument that the social network was too trusting of third parties requesting access to its users’ data.  Facebook suspended the mypersonality app in April claiming it may have violated its terms. The social network 