title:Coca-Cola Suffers Breach at the Hands of Former Employee
date:2018-05-25 22:46:12
tourl:https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/coca-cola-suffers-breach-at-the-hands-of-former-employee/
tags:[attack,GDPR,regulations,China,law,DNS,act,bill]
Hackers have come up with a never-before-seen method of installing backdoored plugins on websites running the open-source WordPress CMS, and this new technique relies on using weakly protected WordPress.com accounts and the Jetpack plugin. The technique is highly complex, and to compromise a site, a hacker must go through different steps, during which multiple things can prevent the attack from being successful. Nevertheless, attacks have been happening since May 16, according to The first step of this attack consists of hackers taking usernames and passwords from public breaches and attempting to log into WordPress.com accounts. Users who reused passwords across accounts and who did not enable two-factor authentication for their profiles are susceptible to these account take-over attempts. To be clear, WordPress.com accounts are used to manage professional blogs hosted by Automattic, and are different from both WordPress.org accounts and admin accounts for self-hosted WordPress sites that based on the open-source CMS. While the WordPress open-source CMS is managed by the WordPress community, lots of Automattic developers contribute to the open-source project and have always had a big influence and close ties to the open-source CMS. This is why, a few years back, Automattic took the analytics plugin used on WordPress.com and released it as an open-source plugin for self-hosted WordPress sites. In time, this analytics module —named One of the plugin's features is the ability to connect self-hosted WordPress sites to a WordPress.com account and use the Jetpack panel inside the WordPress.com dashboard to manage tens or thousands of self-hosted WordPress sites via the Jetpack plugin installed on each site. One of the options Jetpack provides is the ability to install plugins across different sites from the WordPress.com Jetpack dashboard. The plugin doesn't even have to be hosted or hidden on the official WordPress.org repository, and attackers can easily upload a ZIP file with the malicious code that then gets sent to each site. According to Wordfence, hackers who've been taking over WordPress.com accounts and finding linked WordPress self-hosted sites have been abusing this remote management feature to deploy backdoored plugins across previously secured sites. Experts say that attacks started on May 16, with the hackers deploying a plugin named \"pluginsamonsters,\" later switching to another plugin named \"wpsmilepack\" on May 21. The number of compromised sites is unknown, and detecting compromised sites is also difficult. \"The plugin is visible on the WordPress.com dashboard but is invisible on the target WordPress site's plugin list when active,\" the Wordfence team said. For now, hackers have been using these backdoors to redirect users to spam and tech support scams. Owners of self-hosted sites that have connected their Jetpack plugin with a WordPress.com account are encouraged to review the plugins they have deployed across self-hosted sites inside the WordPress.com dashboard. If they find suspicious plugins, they should immediately change their WordPress.com account password, enable two-factor authentication for the account, and initiate site-cleaning procedures. Wordfence said that the threat actor behind this new site hijacking technique has targeted self-hosted WordPress sites before. In February of this year, they used a technique called \"credential stuffing\" —using leaked username  password combos— in attempts to guess the credentials of admin accounts and hijacked WordPress self-hosted sites directly at the source. A hacker found a way around a previous patch in the Verge cryptocurrency source code and took advantage of the flaw to monopolize mining operations and create Verge coins (XVG) at a rapid pace. The attack took place on Tuesday, May 22 [Users who looked into the attack's aftermath believe the hacker mined over 35 million XVG coins in just a few hours for a profit of $1.65 million. The incident is eerily similar to another attack that took place Following the April attack, the Verge development team hard-forked the entire cryptocurrency's source code to patch the flaw exploited by the attacker and reverse his gains. But according to several users knowledgeable of the Verge source code, the attacker found a way around the hard-fork's patch and launched a similar attack. \"Since nothing really was done about the previous attacks (only a band-aid), the attackers now simply use two algos to fork the chain for their own use and are gaining millions,\" The Verge dev team didn't appear to recognize the attack, in the beginning, calling it a DDoS on mining pools. it appears some mining pools are under ddos attack, and we are experiencing a delay in our blocks, we are working to resolve this. — vergecurrency (@vergecurrency) Nonetheless, once it became clear what was going on, developers started working on a patch once more. It is unclear if the Verge team plans to hard-fork the cryptocurrency's source code to reverse the effects of the illegal mining like it did in April. Small update about the 51% attack today. Developer is working on a patch. But something more awsome to look forward to is we will have a complete new codebase soon!!Just like in April, no XVG coins were stolen from users' accounts, but the attack did invalidate legitimate mining operations and crashed Verge's price by 10% due to news about the attack and the creation of a large pot of new coins. An unidentified hacker has mounted several \"double spend\" attacks on the infrastructure of the Bitcoin Gold cryptocurrency and has managed to amass over $18 million worth of BTG (Bitcoin Gold) coins in the process. According to a The attacker has been deploying a large number of servers to take control of more than half of the Bitcoin Gold's network hashrate in what's known as a \"51% attack.\" This grants the attacker the ability to modify details of blockchain transactions, an ability he's been using in the last few days to perform a second attack called \"double spend,\" which as the name implies, allows him to spend the same amount of coins twice. According to the Bitcoin Gold team, this attacker has been using this combination of a 51% and double-spend attack to defraud cryptocurrency exchange services. \"The cost of mounting an ongoing attack is high. Because the cost is high, the attacker can only profit if they can quickly get something of high value from a fake deposit,\" the Bitcoin Gold team explained. \"A party like an Exchange may accept large deposits automatically, allow the user to trade into a different coin quickly, and then withdraw automatically. This is why they are targeting Exchanges.\" For the last few days, the attacker has been doing just this. He's been depositing large amounts of BTG coins at exchanges, but also sending the same funds to his own wallet. By the time exchanges realize the blockchain has been tampered with and that the transaction is invalid, the hacker has already withdrawn funds from the exchange and doubled his original funds. To counteract attacks, exchanges have been raising the threshold needed to confirm a BTG transaction in the past few days, but the hacker has continued to deploy more and more mining power to take over more than half of the Bitcoin Gold network and carry out the double-spend attack anyway. The Bitcoin Gold team says it tracked the funds stolen from exchanges to a BTG address located at More than 388,000 BTG coins have passed through this account, suggesting the hacker has made over $18 million from his attacks. To be clear, the hacker hasn't been stealing money from users, but from the exchanges. While no user has lost money, the attacks are still dangerous because they might destabilize an exchange's backup funds, or may lead to its insolvency, which in turn may prevent users from withdrawing funds. Users may not be losing money right now, but if the attacks continue, some exchanges may go bankrupt and won't be able to refund users still keeping funds with the exchange. According to one of the exchange portals who collaborated with the Bitcoin Gold team to get to the bottom of these attacks, they also believe the person/group behind this past week's events has also attempted the same attack on the original Bitcoin network in the past. Bitcoin Gold is a very popular cryptocurrency created by forking the original Bitcoin currency in November 2017, currently ranked #27 based on total market cap. The US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has obtained court orders and has taken control of the command and control servers of a massive botnet of over 500,000 devices, known as the VPNFilter botnet. The existence of this massive threat Cisco said the botnet appeared to be preparing for an attack on Ukraine, as the botnet's operators were working hard to infect as many devices as possible within the country. The Ukrainian Secret Service The FBI confirmed that the botnet has been created and was under the control of a famous Russian cyber-espionage unit known under different names, such as APT28, Sednit, Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Sofacy, Grizzly Steppe, STRONTIUM, Tsar Team, and others. A This group has been behind several cyber-attacks aimed at Ukraine in the past, such as Security experts deemed the VPFilter botnet incredibly dangerous, not only because it was the work of a nation-state cyber group with nefarious reasons, but because it also included functions to intercept network traffic, search for SCADA equipment, and wipe firmware to temporarily brick devices. With such powerful capabilities, and with devices infected all over the world, US authorities stepped in to prevent further damage from this threat. Hours after the publication of the Cisco report, the FBI had obtained a With the domain firmly in its grasp, the FBI is now asking users across the world who own affected routers and NAS devices to reset their equipment. The reasoning, according to the FBI, is to make these devices reconnect to the command and control server, giving the FBI a full insight into the botnet's real size. The FBI plans to use this knowledge to create a list of vulnerable devices and notify ISPs, private and public sector partners that can deal with the infected devices. Owners of the following types of devices are vulnerable to the VPNFilter malware, and should reboot their devices, based on the FBI's advice: Microsoft said this week it plans to extend and enforce the new GDPR privacy protections to all of its customers, not just those based in EU countries. \"We will extend the rights that are at the heart of GDPR to all of our consumer customers worldwide,\" said Julie Brill, Corporate Vice President and Deputy General Counsel for Microsoft, in a statement on Monday. \"Known as Data Subject Rights, they include the right to know what data we collect about you, to correct that data, to delete it and even to take it somewhere else,\" Brill said. Users can find these new controls for managing their data in every Microsoft account dashboard, in the Microsoft has also updated its privacy statement for all users to reflect the addition of the GDPR-compatible rules. Changes to the The Windows OS maker has also launched a portal at GDPR stands for General Data Protection Regulation and is a new user and data privacy regulation slated to come into effect in the EU tomorrow, May 25, 2018 The new regulation brings a wealth of protections to user privacy but is a nightmare for companies doing business in Europe. Some companies not willing to deal with the GDPR compliance headache, have been blocking access to their services for EU users Others are officially shutting down service for EU users altogether. Examples include Verve (online marketing), Ragnarok Online (online game), Super Monday Night Combat (online game), Unroll (email subscription service), Brent Ozar Unlimited (software supplier), Tungle (gaming software provider), and Drawbridge (cross-device identity service). Microsoft is the first tech giant that decides to take a different approach and extend GDPR to all users, instead of finding loopholes to skirt privacy protection regulations —Mozilla developers are working on an improved Tracking Protection system for the Firefox browser that will land in version 63, scheduled for release in mid-October. Tracking Protection is a feature that blocks Firefox from loading scripts from abusive trackers. It was first launched with Firefox's Private Browsing mode a few years back, But Tracking Protection is not enabled by default, and to enable the protection for normal browsing sessions, users must visit Firefox's Settings  Privacy section, and press an on/off button. Firefox Tracking Protection makes the web a joy to use again. It makes pages load super-fast. It blocks the most annoying ads. And it gives me the piece of mind that I'm not being tracked as I surf the web. Enable it today in Firefox Options/Preferences/Settings — Asa Dotzler (@asadotzler) Because it's buried deep in Firefox's settings, very few people even know it exists, let alone that they can use it outside of Private Browsing windows. To promote this feature with users, Mozilla engineers are currently working on changes to the Firefox user interface to allow anyone to enable Tracking Protection at any time from various areas of the Firefox UI. These include the drop-down security panel that shows HTTPS information or the drop-down menu that can be triggered from the top-right side of the browser. But besides the changes to the UI, Firefox devs have also worked at improving its capabilities. The Firefox browser's Settings  Privacy section now features an enhanced Tracking Protection panel that also allows users to select what anti-tracking features they can enable. While Tracking Protection has Mozilla told Bleeping Computer in Last but not least, Mozilla engineers have also simplified the process of clearing cookies in Firefox. Starting with Firefox 63, you can now clear cookies and site data for a website directly from the security panel that appears whenever a user clicks the info/lock icon in the address bar. The new button will read \"Clear Cookies and Site Data...\" and it will show up at the bottom of the security panel —the panel used to show SSL certificate information. These features are also detailed in a Firefox design doc embedded below, and anyone can preview the UI changes right now by installing and using Firefox Nightly. Earlier today, Microsoft released cumulative update KB4100403 that fixes several bugs, including Users reported these issues after updating to the latest version of Windows 10, the April 2018 Update —also known as version 1803. Owners of computers using with Intel SSD 600p Series, Intel SSD Pro 6000p Series, Toshiba XG4 Series, Toshiba XG5 Series, and Toshiba BG3 Series reported various problems. More specifically, Windows PCs using Intel SSDs would often crash and enter a UEFI screen after reboot, while users of Toshiba SSDs reported lower battery life and SSD drives becoming very hot. Many users —who still had access to a working Windows OS— were forced to downgrade back to the previous version, the Fall Creators Update, while the rest had to reinstall Windows from scratch. Microsoft became aware of the issues after a week and worked with OEM partners to halt the deployment of the April 2018 Update to any devices using the affected Intel and Toshiba SSD models [The company promised a fix for early June, but Microsoft engineers rolled one out today, via This update is available via the normal Windows Update service, or users can KB4100403 is an update only available for Windows 10 and Windows Server 2016 version 1803, and besides the Intel and Toshiba SSD issues, it also patched the following bugs: As much as people enjoy their virtual assistants, sometimes they do things that are downright creepy. Such is the case for a family in Portland who discovered that Amazon Alexa recorded a conversation without permission and sent it to a random person in their contact list. According to This person, who was an employee of the husband, stated that he had received audio recordings of conversations that took place in the family's home. He was able to prove this by telling the family what they had just been talking about. When the Portland family contacted Amazon, they finally got in touch with an Amazon engineer who stated \"our engineers went through your logs, and they saw exactly what you told us, they saw exactly what you said happened, and we're sorry.\" Danielle, the family member who contacted Amazon, stated that Amazon did not provide any details as to how or why this happened.  She further wanted to return all of Amazon Alexa devices and get her money back, which Amazon has refused to do at this time. This is not the first time Alexa has started acting weird. A few months ago, Alexa started randomly laughing and freaking their owners out. Since then Amazon had BleepingComputer has contacted Amazon for a comment regarding this incident but had not heard back at the time of publication. Two years after being ousted, a criminal operation that has been inserting malware in the firmware of low-cost Android devices is still up and running, and has even expanded its reach. News of this group first surfaced At the time, experts said they found malware in the firmware of at least 26 low-cost Android smartphone and tablets models. Once ousted, Dr.Web hoped crooks would pack up and move on to another operation. But in a report released yesterday, cyber-security firm Avast says the group has never ceased operations and has continued to poison the firmware of more and more devices, growing their operation many times over. Avast published Comparing the Dr.Web and Avast reports, the malware doesn't seem to have received any updates and still operates in the same manner. It runs from the \"/system\" folder with full root rights, and its main role is to connect to a remote server, download an XML file, and then install one or more apps mentioned in this document. Because the malware ships as a firmware component, it can easily grab any app crooks tell it to and install it without any user interaction. In almost all cases, the apps the malware installs are used solely to display ads on top of other apps or the Android interface itself. Many Android users have been noticing the ads [Crooks are obviously interested in generating revenue via ads alone, and no other shady behavior has been seen. The only times the malware won't download additional apps is when the device's language is set to Chinese, when the device's public IP address is also from a Chinese IP range, and when the number of locally installed apps is below three (indicating a test/scan environment). While it appears the group may be operating out of China because it avoids infecting Chinese users —hence avoid law enforcement attention—, Avast has not yet been able to fully determine this fact. The cyber-security firm says it has had a hard time tracking when the malware is inserted in the firmware of these devices. There are too many mobile carriers and smartphone vendors affected to pin the blame on one of them. Infected devices have been found in over 90 countries, and the only common component between them is that they all use a Mediatek chipset. But MediaTek can't be blamed either, as not all devices from an affected smartphone model are infected with the malware. If one of the MediaTek firmware components would have harbored the malware, then all devices for a specific model would have been affected, not just a handful. This means the group is opportunistic and infects devices at random, as it finds a window during which it can poison their firmware. For now, Avast says it managed to take down the group's command-and-control server for a small period of time, but because the domain registrar hasn't intervened to invalidate the group's domain name, the group simply switched to another hosting provider. The The attack —codenamed The problem, as security researchers from Pen Test Partners have explained this week, is that all S0 traffic is secured by default with an encryption key of \"0000000000000000.\" An attacker that can trick a smart device into pairing with another device, a PC, or a smartphone app via the older S0 standard, can later decrypt all traffic exchanged between the two because the decryption key is widely known. The Pen Test crew say they identified three methods that can be used to trick two devices into pairing via the old S0 instead of S2, even if both support the newer security standard. The Z-Shave attack is dangerous because devices paired via an older version of Z-Wave can become a point of entry for an attacker into a larger network, or can lead to the theft of personal property. While this flaw might prove frivolous for some devices in some scenarios, it is a big issue for others —such as smart door locks, alarm systems, or any Z-Wave-capable device on the network of a large corporation. But in a \"You would need advanced equipment in proximity to the home during the short installation process,\" a Silicon Labs spokesperson said. \"When installing a new device there is a very small window of time (milliseconds) to force the S2 to S0 reversion,\" he added. \"The homeowner or professional installer will always be present during installation and is the only one who can initiate the inclusion process.\" But Pen Test Partners dispute this latter claim, saying this is not actually an inconvenience. \"When we say active attacker – we don’t mean a guy in a hoody sat in a car with a laptop,\" said Pen Test's Andrew Tierney. \"A battery-powered drop-box could be left outside the property for weeks, waiting for a pairing event to occur.\" Tierney later added on Twitter that an attacker could also deploy a denial-of-service flaw against a targeted device to force it offline and trick the owner into re-pairing it at the attacker's convenience. But Silicon Labs also claimed that the Z-Shave attack would also be hard to pull off because any time the devices would pair via S0 instead of S2 \"the smart home controller or gateway will ALWAYS notify the user if S2 is reverted to S0 during the installation process.\" Nonetheless, this claim was proven to be wrong in a demo video recorded by the Pen Test team, where researchers didn't receive any alert. The Z-Shave attack isn't actually new. Other researchers pointed out At the time, the issue was not given enough importance because the S2-to-S0 downgrade was considered an acceptable risk for the time being, as devices needed a fallback mechanism for compatibility reasons —to interconnect the old S0 devices with the newer S2 devices. But five years later, devices are still shipping with support for Z-Wave S0, despite The issue can't be ignored for longer because Z-Wave's popularity is growing among IoT device makers due to its superior range when compared to Bluetooth. The protocol is believed to have been deployed with over 2,400 smart device models and in use by over 100 million devices. More news articles and attention givet to the Z-Shave attack might be the push that some device makers need to switch to the newer and more secure version of the protocol. A new pay what you want deal is available for 8 online courses that teach you how to get started in White Hat Hacking by learning Metasploit, WAPTP, Kali Linux, and more. This deal has a combined value of $1,528, but with the Pay What You Want bundles, you are able to get all of the courses by This bundle also comes with a 15 day satisfaction guarantee. If you are unsatisfied for any reason, just contact StackCommerce and they will issue a store credit refund within 15 days of purchase. Disclosure: This is a StackCommerce deal in partnership with BleepingComputer.com. In order to participate in this deal or giveaway you are required to register an account in our StackCommerce store. To learn more about how StackCommerce handles your registration information please see the Statistics gathered from over 11 million enterprise users reveal that Windows 10 market share is growing, Windows 7 has been slowly phased out, and, unfortunately, a large number of users are still using outdated operating systems. This statistical data was gathered by Duo Security, a cyber-security firm, and provider of secure login/access solutions, and compiled in the company's yearly Trusted Access Report. According to Duo, more and more of enterprise users using its solutions are working from remote locations. But this wasn't a surprise for the company, being already known from other reports [What did surprise Duo experts was the sudden decline in Windows 7 usage from 2017 to 2018. Usage dropped from 65% of all Windows users in 2017 to only 27% in 2018 (see chart above). Experts believe that the WannaCry ransomware incident had an effect on enterprises abandoning Windows 7, mainly because But Duo stats also showed that not all users switching from Windows 7 migrated to Windows 10. Duo says it recorded only a 4% rise in Windows 10 usage from last year. Based on its data, Duo says a vast majority of users appear to have switched to another OS, as Windows lost market share, while macOS and iOS gained more followers. But while a 48% market share for Windows 10 among all Windows enterprise users seems a reason to celebrate at Microsoft's offices, it is not for the security community. In the real world, this means that more than half of Windows enterprise users are running an outdated version of Windows. This is a reason for concern, as these devices are prone to hacks, exploits, and malware. Nonetheless, Windows is not nearly in as bad of a shape as other operating systems. For example, the same Duo statistics revealed that the percentage of iOS, macOS, ChromeOS, and Android users running older versions of their respective operating systems are bigger than Windows'. According to Duo's numbers, 90% of all Android devices were running an out-of-date OS version, 85% of ChromeOS devices were running an out-of-date OS version, 74% of macOS users were running an out-of-date OS version, and 56% of iOS users doing the same. The Duo report also includes a similar statistic analyzing the percentage of browsers that were kept up to date. According to Duo, Firefox Mobile was by far the most out-of-date browser employed by its customers, with 95% of all Firefox Mobile users utilizing an out-of-date version. The most up-to-date browser was Internet Explorer, but this statistic is tainted because IE hasn't received any major updates for years, and users had a long period of time to update to the latest version. More statistics and charts are available in the Today Microsoft released Windows 10 Insider Preview Build 17677 (Redstone 5) to insiders in the fast and skip ahead rings. This build introduces new features to Microsoft Edge, Narrator improvements, Kernel debugging improvements, Mobile Broadband (LTE) driver improvements, and changes to how Task Manager lists memory for suspended UWP apps. In this build Microsoft made some improvements to Microsoft Edge that include: You can now use Narrator's scan mode to select content in Microsoft Edge, Word, Outlook, Mail, and most text surfaces. We are adding support for IPv6 to KDNET. To make room for the larger headers required for IPv6, we’re decreasing the payload size of packets. As a result, we’re declaring a new version of the protocol, so that host PCs running the latest version of the debugger can be used to debug target PCs that only support IPv4. An updated SDK and WDK will be released soon with this support.  In prior versions, Task Manager would continue to show memory usage for suspended UWP apps.  With this version, Task Manager will no longer do that as Windows can reclaim memory from suspended apps as needed. The Mobile Broadband driver was updated to use the NetAdapter framework in To see the entire release notes, you can read the Security researchers have discovered a new banking trojan named BackSwap that uses never-before-seen techniques to facilitate the theft of online funds. The techniques the trojan uses have not been observed with another malware family, and they can bypass antivirus software detection and security protections put in place at the browser level. Experts believe these techniques will soon be copied by other groups and spread around to trigger a new wave of banking trojan attacks right when infections with this malware type have begun to go down. Until now, all previous banking trojans used two main tricks to steal money from victims. The first technique, now rarely used, relied on altering local DNS and Internet settings by intercepting requests for banking-related sites and redirecting the user via a proxy to a clone website of the original banking portal, where crooks would collect login credentials and act as a middleman between the user and the bank. The second technique, currently the go-to solution for all major banking trojans like Dridex, Ursnif, Zbot, Trickbot, Qbot, and others, relied on injecting malicious code inside the browser's process. This technique was efficient in the beginning, but antivirus vendors have modified their apps to scan for process injection attempts, and have become quite good at detecting these events. Browser vendors have similarly modified their software to prevent banking trojans from easily tapping into the browser's internal functions that allow trojans to meddle with a page's content. Nowadays, the process injection technique is more of a headache for banking trojan makers, as they have to review and modify their injection code after every browser update because browser vendors always change something that breaks the attackers' previous code. This constant hassle and improved AV protection are, maybe, one of the reasons why many cybercriminal groups have moved from distributing banking trojans to new types of malware such as in-browser miners, coinminers, ransomware, and others. But in a Furthermore, these techniques bypass both AV and browser-related protections because they don't tamper with the browser process at all. The first technique BackSwap deploys is a technique used for detecting when the user is accessing a banking-related website. According to ESET, BackSwap uses a native Windows mechanism named the \"message loop.\" According to BackSwap simply taps into the Windows message loop to search for URL-like patterns, such as \"https\" strings and other terms related to a bank's name. Once it detects the browser is accessing and loading a banking-related website, BackSwap uses one of two techniques to tamper with the loaded content. For both techniques, the trojan doesn't inject code inside the browser's process but merely simulates key presses. Initial versions of the BackSwap trojan used the following method to alter what users are seeing inside web pages. This entire attack takes under a second to execute, and users will have a hard time noticing that something went wrong or even distinguishing it from a regular browser freeze. But despite its simplicity, the BackSwap crew seems to have abandoned this first technique, and moved to a new one, which interacts with the browser's address bar. ESET says BackSwap supports attacks against Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox and Internet Explorer, but with little tweaks, the techniques should work against all browsers, since all modern browsers today support a developer console and the BackSwap's techniques are incredibly easy to execute, and don't necessarily rely on high-level knowledge of the Windows OS to implement, like previous banking trojan attacks. While they're bound to spread to other banking trojan families in the upcoming future, at the moment, this trojan is not a global threat. Researchers say that current versions of BackSwap come with support for altering the web portals of only five Polish banks —PKO Bank Polski, Bank Zachodni WBK S.A., mBank, ING, and Pekao. Nonetheless, ESET said it notified browser vendors about BackSwap's new techniques in the hopes they'd deploy countermeasures in upcoming browser versions, and mitigate these types of attacks before they go mainstream with other malware families. As if Ben and Jerry's, beautiful landscape, and legalized marijuana wasn't enough of an incentive, Vermont has passed legislation called the \"New Remote Worker Grant Program\" that will pay a remote worker's expenses if they move to Vermont. As remote workers can work anywhere, Vermont is hoping that this grant will entice workers to move to Vermont, which allows the State to generate greater taxes and economic growth. Approved by both the Vermont House and Senate and now waiting to be signed by the Governor, the grant will pay a remote worker up to $5,000 a year, to a lifetime total of $10,000, to cover expenses incurred from relocating to Vermont and working remotely. In order to qualify for this grant, remote workers will need to move to Vermont on or after January 1st, 2019 and apply for the grant. Existing remote workers will not be elegible to participate in this program. The expenses covered under this bill include: According to   This was a very quiet week with very few ransomware variants released and not much news at all, which we are always happy about. The biggest news has been the Contributors and those who provided new ransomware information and stories this week include: A new and active campaign for the CryptON Ransomware is currently underway where attackers are hacking into computers with Internet accessible Remote Desktop Services. Once the attackers gain access to the computer they manually execute the ransomware and encrypt your files. The Coca-Cola company announced a data breach incident this week after a former employee was found in possession of worker data on a personal hard drive. The company learned of the security breach last September after law enforcement officials contacted Coca-Cola. Investigators said that a former employee at a Coca-Cola subsidiary was found in possession of an external hard drive containing information that appeared to have been misappropriated from Coca-Cola. Coca-Cola says it worked with law enforcement in the past months to investigate the data's origin and validity, and determined that some documents contained the personal information of some of its workers. Following state laws, the company is now sending notification letters to affected employees. \"We are issuing data breach notices to about 8,000 individuals whose personal information was included in computer files that a former employee took with him when he left the company,\" a Coca-Cola spokesperson told The type of stolen and exposed data varies per employee, the spokesperson told us. \"We take information security very seriously, and we sympathize with everyone whose information may have been exposed. We regret any inconvenience or concern this may be causing them,\" the spokesperson added. \"We do not have any information to suggest that the information was used to commit identify theft.\" Coca-Cola is offering free identity monitoring for one year to affected employees through a third-party provider. The company also added it waited until now to report the breach to employees at the request of law enforcement, who were still investigating the incident. Coca-Cola is not the first major company to have its data exposed by former employees. SunTrust suffered a Plus, there are many other similar cases of disgruntled employees doing damage to their former companies on which we have reported in the past [A copy of Coca-Cola's employee notification letter is available below. 