---
layout: post
title: Firefox makers eye new 'voice browser': They've even built an Alexa prototype
date: 2018-06-14 00:02:11
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/firefox-makers-eye-new-voice-browser-theyve-even-built-an-alexa-prototype/
tags: [Source]
---
Developers at Firefox maker Mozilla are working on a new app dubbed 'Scout', which aims to bring voice to the web and offer a voice assistant along the lines of Amazon Alexa or Apple's Siri.Spotted by ZDNet The session covering "Hey Scout, read me the article about polar bears," it says. The Scout app allows Mozilla to "start to explore browsing and consuming content with voice", it adds.The description doesn't offer much beyond that, except that Mozilla is exploring the components it would need to create a voice platform. Given Mozilla's strong stance on privacy, a voice assistant from the non-profit might offer a more privacy-friendly, AI-powered voice assistant than say, Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, or Microsoft's Cortana.Only last month Mozilla A voice browser could also help Mozilla add a new avenue to stay engaged with users as it tries to win back those it lost to Chrome over the years. Mozilla reveals a little more in other sessions focused on voice, which point to early prototypes that use Amazon Alexa, somehow involve iOS, and integrate with Pocket, the Mozilla-owned read-it-later app that recently was integrated with Firefox 60 to Mozilla revealed Scout's connection to Alexa in a session about its recent AR/VR browser Firefox Reality. The session, called "[T]he session will present Scout, a multi-platform tool for listening to web content: first steps towards a multi-platform audio-enable vision of the web. Our Alexa and iOS prototypes feature Pocket as a content source. We'll discuss our iterative approach and collaborations with our colleagues at Pocket." The Firefox becomes first browser to support the Web Authentication API, taking the world closer to no-password logins.Firefox users will soon start to see sponsored stories in new tabs, but Mozilla says it will respect users' privacy.With a revamped browser and a nonprofit mission focused on privacy and user empowerment, Mozilla is ready to strike while the iron's hot.You could ask the browser, which boasts tremendous accessibility potential, to load a website, and it could read it to you.An open source AI tool called Mycroft wants to challenge Alexa and Siri. But, proprietary AI-driven voice assistants will trump a more open approach, at least for now.