---
layout: post
title: IoT domestic abuse: What can we do to stop it? July 11, 2018 - A disturbing new use of technology against loved ones has come to light: Internet of Things (IoT) domestic abuse. What is it? And more importantly, what can we do to fight it?CONTINUE READING
date: 2018-07-11 00:02:13
tourl: https://blog.malwarebytes.com/cybercrime/2018/07/iot-domestic-abuse-can-stop/
tags: [Law,Attack]
---
Some 40 years ago, the sci-fi/horror film The reality, of course, is that she was anything but. There’s been endless works of fiction where smart technology micromanaging the home environment have In 2018, we suddenly have the For years, a subset of abusive partners with technical know-how have placed spyware on computers or mobile devices, stolen passwords, and generally kept tabs on their other half. This could often lead to violence, and as a result, Consumer spyware is a After PC-based spyware became a tool of the trade for abusers, there came an upswing in “coercive control,” the act of Coercive control is such a serious problem that the UK has Keep the “purposeful pattern of incidents occurring over time in order for an individual to exert power or control” description in mind as we move on to the next section about Internet of Things (IoT) abuse, because it’s relevant.An Internet of Things control hub could be a complex remote cloud service powering a multitude of devices, but for most people, it’s a device that sits in the home and helps to power and control appliances and other systems, typically with some level of Internet access and the possibility of additional control via smartphone. It could just be in charge of security cameras or motion sensors, or it might be the total package: heating and cooling, lighting, windows, door locks, fire alarms, ovens, water temperature—pretty much anything you can think of.It hasn’t taken long for abusive partners to take advantage of this newly-embedded functionality, with numerous tales of them making life miserable for their loved ones, effectively trapped in a 24/7 reworking of a sci-fi dystopian home.Their cruelty is only limited by what they can’t hook into the overall network. Locking the spouse into their place of residence then cranking up the heat, blasting them with cold, flicking lights on and off, disabling services, recording conversations, triggering loud security alarms; the abused partner is almost entirely at their mercy.There are all sorts of weird implications thrown up by this sort of real-world abuse of technologies and individuals. What happens if someone has an adverse reaction to severe temperature change? An epileptic fit due to rapidly flickering lights? How about someone turning off smoke alarms or emergency police response technology and then the place burns down or someone breaks in?Someone could well be responsible for a death, but how would law enforcement figure it out, much less know where to pin the blame?Of course, those are situations where spouses are still living together. There are also scenarios where the couple has separated, but the abuser still has access to the IoT tech,  and they proceed to mess with their lives remotely. One is a somewhat more straightforward to approach than the other, but neither are particularly great for the person on the receiving end.Unfortunately, this is a tough nut to crack. Generally speaking, advice given to survivors of domestic abuse tends to err on the side of extreme caution, because if the abuser notices the slightest irregularity, they’ll seek retribution. With computers and more “traditional” forms of tech-based skullduggery, there are usually a few slices of wiggle room.For example, an abused partner may have a mobile device, which is immediately out of reach from the abuser the moment they go outside—assuming they haven’t tampered with it. On desktop, Incognito mode browsing is useful, as are domestic abuse websites which offer Even then, though, there’s risk: the abuser may keep network logs or use surveillance software, and attempts to “hide” the browsing data may raise suspicions. In fact, this is one example where websites slowly moving to HTTPs is beneficial, because an abuser can’t see the website data. Even so, they may still see the URLs and then you’re back to square one.With IoT, everything is considerably much more difficult in domestic abuse situations.A lot of IoT tech is The main hubs powering everything in the home tend to be pretty locked down by comparison, especially if they’re a name brand like Alexa or Nest.In these situations, the more locked down the device, the more difficult it is to suggest evasion solutions for people under threat. They can hardly jump in and start secretly tampering with the technology without notice—frankly people tend to become aware if a physical device isn’t acting how it should a lot faster than their covert piece of spyware designed to grab emails from a laptop.All sorts of weird things can go wrong with some purchased spyware. Maybe there’s a server it needs to phone home to, but the server’s temporarily offline or has been shut down. Perhaps the Internet connection is a bit flaky, and it isn’t sending data back to base. What if the coder wasn’t good and something randomly started to fall apart? There’s so many variables involved that a lot of abusers might not know what to do about it.However, a standard bit of off-the-shelf IoT kit is expected to function in a certain way, and when it suddenly doesn’t? The abuser is going to know about it.Despite the challenges, there are some things we can do to at least gain a foothold against domestic attackers.Of course, adjust to the situation at hand; if you’re not living with the abusive partner anymore, they’re probably not reading your paper journal kept in a cupboard. How about a mobile app? There are tools where you can detail information that isn’t saved on the device via This would especially be the case where device-recorded statistics match whatever you’ve written in your physical journal or saved to your secure mobile app.We’ve spotted at least one example where an org has performed an It’d be great if there was some sort of technological magic bullet that could fix this problem, but as you’ll see from digging around the “IoT scrub job” thread, a lot of security pros are only just starting to understand this type of digitized assault, as well as the best ways to go about combatting it. As with all things domestic abuse, caution is key, and we shouldn’t rush to give advice that could potentially put someone in greater danger. Frustratingly, a surprising number of the top results in search engines for help with these types of attack result in 404 error pages or websites that simply don’t exist anymore.Clearly, we all need to up our game in technology circles and see what we can do to take this IoT-enabled horror show out of action before it spirals out of control. As IoT continues to integrate itself into people’s day-to-day existence, in ways that can’t easily be ripped out afterwards, the potential for massive harm to the most vulnerable members of society is staring us in the face. We absolutely must rise to the challenge.