---
layout: post
title: Military Colleges Aim to Develop Cyber Programs
date: 2018-06-14 00:02:10
tourl: https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com:443/news/military-colleges-aim-to-develop/
tags: [Group]
---
Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.In an effort to address growing concerns over the looming skills gap, leading military colleges and universities in the US have moved to establish cyber institutes. Among the senior military colleges (SMCs) are The Citadel, the University of North Georgia, Norwich University, Texas AM, Virginia Military Institute and Virginia Tech, according to The Initiated by the University of North Georgia, the collaborative group of institutions has the support of Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Sen. Tim Scott (R-South Carolina). The amendment, sponsored by Rep. Jody Hice (R-Georgia) was also included in the Senate Armed Services Committee FY19 NDAA, which is currently up for consideration on the senate floor.“Future cyber leaders must be able to empower their teams to foresee and resolve complex, and often threatening, problems,” Graham told “With cyber threats affecting nearly every sector of our society, we need capable and trained professionals in our Department of Defense and other agencies who are prepared to proactively and effectively counter this dangerous trend,” Scott reportedly said.“We need our nation’s cyber training facilities, especially our Senior Military Colleges, to train the next generation of leaders to help secure Americans’ information and to further advance our overall national security. I was glad to have worked with my colleague Sen. Graham to advocate for the inclusion of the Senior Military Colleges Cyber Institute Amendment in the Senate version of the FY19 NDAA,” said Scott.