title:How to Evolve your Manufacturing Environment to an Ultimate State
date:2018-06-15 13:00:59
tourl:https://blogs.cisco.com/manufacturing/how-to-evolve-your-manufacturing-environment-to-an-ultimate-state
tags:[act,CIO,DNS,attack,GDPR,Exploitation]
 \t\t\tToday, Talos is publishing a glimpse into the most prevalent threats we’ve observed between May 18 and May 25. As with previous round-ups, this post isn’t meant to be an in-depth analysis. Instead, this post will summarize the threats we’ve observed by highlighting key behavioral characteristics, indicators of compromise, and discussing how our customers are automatically protected from these threats. As a reminder, the information provided for the following threats in this post is non-exhaustive and current as of the date of publication. Detection and coverage for the following threats is subject to updates, pending additional threat or vulnerability analysis. For the most current information, please refer to your Firepower Management Center, Snort.org, or ClamAV.net. Read more We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tWe at Cisco have been delivering network orchestration and automation products for a number of years now. Our customers have deployed To start with, we see our customers gaining a more mature understanding the technical and operational transformation required to deploy NFV, and where they can expect return on investment for their NFV investment.  From this understanding, they are making the following demand of vendors: As the NFV market matures, Cisco NSO with NFVO and ESC have continued to build on our experience in the network orchestration.  We are happy to show customers how our Network Orchestration products can automate their NFV.  Following are some of our product capabilities that I would like to highlight: If you are looking for a vendor-agnostic Orchestration platform to automate your NFV initiative, Cisco NSO NFVO is up for the job.   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join Thank you Greg for posting this product and technology update.  Please feel free to check out the Cisco NSO NFV Orchestration white paper at https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/solutions/collateral/service-provider/solutions-cloud-providers/white-paper-c11-738702.html.\t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t\t\t\tVery nice Blog. For best Industrial Automation Training in Delhi, India. Visit:- http://www.innovicindia.com/best-industrial-automation-training-institute-in-noida-delhi-ncr.php or call on 9811253572\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\tDevelopers are usually the focus of blame when software vulnerabilities cause organizational breaches. (Sometimes, quality assurance engineers are included in the flame.) Interestingly, though, hardly anyone looks at We’re talking about the culture, the processes, the unrealistic deadlines, and—perhaps the worst of this bunch—the lack of awareness between the business and development sides. The former must realize that as they innovate, they need to adapt and respond to the ever-changing threat landscape; the latter must know how to write good, clean, secure code. Each organizational breach is a testament to something going wrong somewhere. And it’s a lot more complicated than assuming developers are just lazy at coding. To understand what’s really going on, we’ve listed some of the reasons Most of us assume that programmers, well-versed in multiple programming languages as they are, should also know how to write secure code. This just isn’t true. According to While computer science, information systems, and computer engineering students are taught how to code, accredited schools are simply not teaching them security by design. Secure coding is now something programmers must educate themselves on how to do. Software developers are expected to adhere to rigid deadlines. No ifs, ands, or buts. On top of this, they also have to balance conflicting interests from multiple stakeholders, refine code functionalities, and ensure that the program is reliable and stable. Programmers have to tick several more boxes before reaching the bottom of the list, where security is. In fact, it’s more common for programmers to skip security checks, so they deploy the program as-is: a working, efficient, but vulnerable product. Essentially, it’s half-baked. As much as software developers would want to keep their code as risk-free as possible, they cannot. The tools needed for this are expensive and can be a hard sell for organizations that have budget constraints or who utterly fail to grasp the importance of reducing software vulnerabilities. Vulnerable software is the bane of business organizations. In this age of breaches, you’d think it’s only logical for organizations to secure vulnerable software, starting with their own. Yet, bad code remains prevalent to this day. It’s up to management to take charge and prioritize security in the development process. By adopting any or all of these suggestions to eradicate bad code, businesses can not only help software developers do a better job, but also potentially secure their reputation, data, and ongoing survival. Shall we begin? Training is perhaps the best and most effective way to get software developers to improve their coding. To do this, management has several options: invite a third-party organization to conduct training, have their software engineers enroll in workshops outside of the workplace, or have them register for online classes. Should they decide to hire a third party, there are some private institutions they can turn to. Depending on the programming languages your developers are using, upper management must establish secure coding standards they can adhere to. Thankfully, they don’t have to start from scratch. There are A convention includes recommended programming styles, methods, and other coding practices. Adhering to one significantly lessens errors, makes the source code readable to other programmers, and is easier to maintain in the long run. Make no mistake: secure coding should be as important to company culture as it is to the overall software development process. The aim of having such a culture is to imbibe security practices so deep that they become second nature. These practices grow into valuable traits programmers can take with them anywhere. As we keep saying, security is no longer the job of one department in a company. It is now everyone’s job to ensure that sensitive client information is kept safe and secure, and to think twice before clicking that link or opening that email attachment. If security is stressed as an important part of company culture, that mindset can extend beyond staving off breaches to keeping your customers just as safe. A policy is vital to have as this guides software developers not only on what security features to bake into their applications, but also how these should be implemented. Unfortunately, organizations often overlook this, leaving their applications, intellectual property, and other vital information open to compromise. Embedding a security policy to the SDLC is a must. If the company makes their product available to the European market, then embedding Bug bounties in general are Rigid timelines may get the job done, but they also encourage sloppy coding. A finished product doesn’t mean it’s a secure one. If security checks on code are usually ignored because of the project schedule, wouldn’t it be better for project managers to set the timeline with a little padding in case something happens and the target date isn’t met? Today’s threat landscape no longer allows half-baked applications. A slight schedule slippage can be remedied, but a breach due to flaws that wouldn’t have been missed during code reviews could cause more problems and unnecessary expenditures for the company. This can be done by creating an environment where developers are not only required to meet standards, but want to. One way is ensuring that software programmers have the tools and equipment they need. For app developers, they may require several mobile devices (phones and tablets) they can use for testing. Upper management must also work closely with team and project leaders to provide programmers access to necessary information they need for the project and people they can reach out to for advice. Other things that are important to developers are ergonomic furniture, a fast PC, a personal space where they can work quietly and privately, writing materials and whiteboards, and an RR area where they can meet with other employees. Should upper management set up an incentive program for good coding? It might be the natural step to take—although, A word on Every company looking to improve their overall security posture, beginning with addressing the problem of bad code, should know that a 100 percent turnaround isn’t possible at the onset. Change is usually slow. However, after about a year of baking security into the coding process, expect a highly significant return on investment. This was the result of Code that works is well-designed, efficient, usable, readable, and (most importantly) secure. It is not impossible to achieve. All organizations have to do is start getting rid of bad coding habits.  \t\t\tHow can we work together to speed the pace of social change while making it more intuitive than ever before? In this live #CiscoChat, we’ll take a look at some of the ways companies, organizations, and individuals can go above and beyond to transform our world for the better. From increasing access to innovative medical technology to improving disaster response and creating economic opportunity for others, there are endless opportunities to solve global problems. By joining this chat, you’ll explore how real #GlobalProblemSolvers are making a positive impact in the world and gain critical insights into how you can become one, too. This live video discussion will be moderated by Austin Belisle, social media and content manager for Cisco In Orlando, attendees will have the opportunity to build pi-top’s modular laptops in our To participate in this live video chat: We hope to hear from you on June 4th, and can’t wait for another exciting Cisco Live! Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\t#CiscoChampion Radio is a podcast series by technologists for technologists. In this episode, Cisco Champions Aaron Kirk discuss the NOC at Cisco Live with Joe Clarke. Listen in and provide us feedback, we would love to hear from you! Cisco Champions are an elite group of technical experts who are passionate about IT and enjoy sharing their knowledge, expertise, and thoughts across the social web and with Cisco. The program has been running for over five years and has earned two industry awards as an industry best practice. Learn more about the program at   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tDo you ever wish you could predict the future? What if I told you that you don’t have to be a wizard from the Harry Potter books, visit a tarot card reader, or take a silly BuzzFeed quiz to predict the future? And what if I told you divination is not just a fictional magic term? (For those not so loyal Harry Potter fans, divination is a branch of magic that involves attempting to foresee the future, or gather insights into future events, through various rituals and tools.) Experience divination come to life as you see into the future of your network with You can ensure future network performance for optimal user experiences with real-time and historical data analytics to learn, adapt, and even detect problems before they happen. Get a glimpse into the future by modeling changes on the network and testing configurations before you deploy them. Not only will DNA Center Assurance allow you to see into the future, but you can also solve for network challenges in the past and present. The network can quickly identify the root cause of the roughest wired and wireless networking problems – past or present – with suggested remediation to drive up productivity. Today, IT teams spend 43 percent of their time troubleshooting network issues. Reduce the amount of time and money spent troubleshooting and be more proactive in identifying, diagnosing and predicting issues across the network. Get some of your crucial time back with the combination of DNA Center Assurance and We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tYou don’t want to miss the upcoming region The theme of Cisco Live is “Imagine Intuitive.” We’re going to give you the tools to imagine, and then turn around and make it realwith your customers. Register for your regional partner webinar now at We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tThe new C-Series multinode rack server is comprised of the chassis and server nodes. The chassis is 2RU and supports four server nodes. There are 24 front loading, hot plug, SFF drive bays. Each of the four nodes is allocated six drive bays – either all SAS/SATA or two NVMe plus four SAS/SATA. It has dual 2400W power supplies providing plenty of power for the beefiest configurations.   The C125 M5 is Cisco’s first server based on     While speeds  feeds are nice, they are not the most important thing to consider when purchasing servers for scale out workloads. The real question is how quickly a new server can be deployed to deliver results and how much additional time and resources you will need to manage it. Other server vendors offer multinode servers, only Cisco offers you a system. What do I mean by a system? At its core, UCS is a fabric-centric architecture with a centralized management model. All of Cisco’s servers: Do you have to use Cisco Intersight? Of course not. Like all C-Series rack servers, the C125 M5 has a Cisco IMC (If you want to learn more about the our new multinode system, contact your Cisco sales team or You can also find more information on the C4200  C125 M5 at For more information on the entire Cisco UCS portfolio, go to   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join Nice post!\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\tWhen my children were younger, the first sign of summer—besides the longer days and warmer temperatures—was our annual trip to our local bookstore. We (me included!) always came home from these jaunts with arms full of books. A few were from their school’s ubiquitous “summer reading” list, but many were titles we selected ourselves. There were usually books from across genres—from old favorites and best sellers to self-help and cookbooks—books we thought looked interesting or sounded fun, even books we’d been looking forward to reading all year. My children are older now, so a family trip to the bookstore to kick off summer is no longer a guarantee. Still, I am gathering my own summer-reading collection. There’s some new fiction I’d like to read, and I think this may be the summer I tackle George Eliot’s If you’re thinking of your own summer-reading list and have digital teaching and learning on your mind, I’d like to make a few suggestions. Some of these are about topics that fall into that “more serious” category—think cybersecurity and IT modernization—but others are inspirational and even fun. The thought of IT modernization may be intimidating, but the mandate to update IT systems is very real. Ensuring cybersecurity from core to edge is one of the essential elements of IT modernization, and the subject of cybersecurity is top of mind for many. This is especially true for those in education, where institutions strike a delicate balance between safeguarding personal data and intellectual property, and encouraging academic freedom, openness, and collaboration. The In the Did you know that the The median number of security professionals is increasing consistently.  Still, for schools, colleges, and universities educating tomorrow’s workforce, the lack of skilled security talent across all industries has positive implications: It’s always exciting to learn about how other schools, colleges, and universities are changing teaching and learning with digital technology. We’d love to hear what you’re looking forward to reading this summer! Share your recommendations in the comments section below. Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tBack in 1940, a Canadian named Norman Breakey invented the paint roller—a leap forward in painting technology. Immediately, professional painters panicked, fearing large-scale job loss, and for years, paint rollers were banned from professional painting jobs. But of course, large-scale adoption was inevitable and now we all use paint rollers. Fast forward 77 years, and we have a whole new wave of “techno panics.” Taxi drivers have demonstrated against ride-sharing services in New York, London, and Tokyo. India’s minister of transport and highways has declared that Is there reason to panic? It’s true that technology is causing disruption in many sectors – even after recovering 300,000 jobs since the depths of the Great Recession, the auto industry still has about But we’ve been here before, and we’ll be here again. The mass production of automobiles killed the jobs of backsmiths and carriage drivers, but raised thousands of autoworkers into the middle class in the early 20    One option is panic, denial, and resistance – the response of painters and railway workers 80 years ago. But I believe that if technology played a role in creating this disruption, technology can also help us deal with it. Studies have shown that in several areas, new technologies are actually helping to create more jobs than they eliminate. For Technology companies and employers must work together to give workers the skills they will need to work with these new technologies. The Paint rollers and self-driving cars have a lot in common – they represent a huge leap forward in productivity and innovation, and they force us to confront our fears about change. Paint rollers caused industry disruption, as will self-driving cars, robots and AI. But I’m betting on the unimagined opportunities that are bound to come on the heels of technology disruption. Because after disruption comes transformation. Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tVulnerabilities discovered by Cory Duplantis from Talos. In April 2018, Talos published We strongly recommend readers to refer to the “Discussion” part of the previous article in order to clearly understand the risk of vulnerabilities targeting health devices. We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tThis blog post is authored by Talos has discovered a new malicious Hangul Word Processor (HWP) document targeting Korean users. If a malicious document is opened, a remote access trojan that we’re calling “NavRAT” is downloaded, which can perform various actions on the victim machine, including command execution, and has keylogging capabilities. The decoy document is named “?? ???? ?? ? ??.hwp” (Prospects for US-North Korea Summit.hwp). The HWP file format is mainly used in South Korea. An Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) object is embedded within the document in order to execute malicious shellcode on the victim systems. The purpose is to download and execute an additional payload hosted on a compromised website: NavRAT. This is a classic RAT that can download, upload, execute commands on the victim host and, finally, perform keylogging. However, the command and control (C2) infrastructure is very specific. It uses the legitimate Naver email platform in order to communicate with the attackers via email. The uploaded file(s) are sent by email, and the downloaded files are retrieved from an email attachment. We have already observed malware using free email platforms for abuse, but this is the first time we have identified a malware that uses Naver — which is known for its popularity in South Korea. One of the most interesting questions we still have is regarding attribution — and who is behind this malware. Previously, we published several articles concerning Group123 (We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tThe building blocks for a distributed access architecture (DAA) are shipping from Cisco. More than 60 customers in 25 countries spanning 4 continents have received key DAA components, such as Remote PHY nodes, Remote PHY shelves, cBR-8 digital cards and Smart PHY automation software. DAA holds much promise to simplify cable operations and improve overall network reliability and makes it easier to manage and configure the cable network and the services that are delivered by the network. As part of DAA, employing Remote PHY devices (RPDs) in nodes are a key element to enable 10G digital optics, Ethernet and IP used for delivering services to nodes. Another network element that is key to DAA success is a rack mounted RPD shelf. Rack mounted RPDs are designed to connect analog nodes to digital Converged Cable Access Platform (CCAP) cores. Installed in the hub or headend, they are connected to CCAP cores via 10G digital optical connections routed through Layer2/3 Ethernet switch routers. The output of each rack mount RPD is traditional RF analog broadband, which is connected to analog fiber optics that transmit to and from legacy analog nodes in the access network. Rack mounted RPDs allow digital fiber optics and Ethernet to replace cumbersome RF hub-based coaxial distribution cables and amplifiers that were used to feed analog optical transmitters. There are two use cases for RPD shelves. The first use case is to enable one CCAP core to serve multiple small and/or distant hubs via digital fiber (i.e. hub site consolidation). The benefits are appreciable savings in both CCAP equipment and operations costs, because RPD shelves enable CCAP processing in fewer locations, using longer distance digital optics between one CCAP core and multiple remote hubs, each with one or more RPD shelf. However, there is a second, equally valuable benefit of RPD shelves. Consider a network in which a large portion, but not all, of the hub nodes will be upgraded to an N+0 (node + 0), DAA architecture.  For this portion of the network, it doesn’t make economic sense to rebuild and convert existing analog nodes to digital (RPD) nodes. The cable operator is faced with operating and managing a portion of the network with conventional edge QAMs, combining networks and analog optics, while the majority of the network employs digital optics, Ethernet and IP routing to do the same things. Instead of making operations simpler, operations is faced with supporting both the legacy network and the new digital network, having to support two very different operating procedures simultaneously in the same hub. By using Remote PHY shelves to provide all connectivity to analog nodes, this problem is solved. A single, unified mode of operations is created for the hub, across both the analog and digital portions of the network. Specifically, RF combining networks and amplifiers in the hub can be completely eliminated, replaced by Ethernet switches and digital optics. Video services can be converged with data through the CCAP core if desired. Analog RF outputs from CCAP platforms can be eliminated, and CCAP platforms can be operated as CCAP cores, resulting in a higher service group density per platform. Future node splits can be done in digital, even if the node being split is analog. Simply put, Remote PHY shelves enable a hybrid analog/digital network to be managed as a single DAA network. Software and hardware interoperability continue to be essential for enabling a DAA. The Open Remote PHY Device (OpenRPD) initiative was established to stimulate the adoption of a DAA by providing reference software for OpenRPD members, encouraging future OpenRPD devices to be based on interoperable software standards and enabling them to develop OpenRPD devices more quickly than by developing code from scratch. Cisco continues to be a key member of the initiative, openly developing and contributing significant portions of RPD software code to the initiative. To verify that hardware and software interoperability work as advertised, CableLabsThe Distributed Access Architecture is a dramatic evolutionary change in the cable network. It is a step toward cloud-native CCAP and the evolution of cable networks to a Converged Interconnect Network (CIN). With our comprehensive hardware and software portfolio for DAA, including the cBR-8 platform, Remote PHY digital nodes and Smart Digital Nodes, Remote PHY shelves that can be configured for redundant operation, and SmartPHY software, Cisco can help cable operators radically simplify the configuration and management of DAA networks. Visit the We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tEvery business has mission critical applications that they rely on in their daily operations. For many companies those critical applications are SAP ERP, and these companies need infrastructure to handle intensive workloads from these apps. Hyperconverged Infrastructure (HCI) provides many advantages, like simplified management and flexibility, for deploying your SAP ERP, but you have to pick the right one. Your business needs a powerful, modernized HCI system that provides consistent, fast performance, even during peak usage, and scales easily as your business needs grow. Attending SAP Sapphire next week? Come by Cisco booth #550 to learn more about HyperFlex solutions for SAP. Stay tuned during the conference for an announcement of a new SAP solution from Cisco Container Platform and HyperFlex.   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tCisco and Downer have an ongoing strategic Internet of Things (IoT) partnership that was recently expanded to include Smart Cities. Downer, a diversified engineering and services company headquartered in Australia, In smart cities, everything is connected. IoT together with automation allows monitoring and processing of terabytes of real-time data to allow multiple systems and infrastructure within cities to be monitored to ensure the public welfare. But with massive amounts of data comes the huge threat of security breaches and nefarious activity. That’s why it’s so important for smart cities to have smart security solutionsDowner embarked upon the project to build a secure, centralized data center where CCTV security feeds from across Western Australia would be consolidated. This is the first project of this type. No playbook existed. Downer turned to Cisco as their partner to jointly innovate solutions for connecting disparate equipment and ensure the entire system was protected against cyber criminals. The Downer team was assigned a Cisco Customer Success manager to deploy the data center, secured with the Firepower 2100 NGFW and industry leading NGIPS to protect the infrastructure. We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tThe annual The team of individuals responsible for the network, which has grown every year as the size and complexity of the network has grown, ranges from early-in-career associate systems engineers to experienced CCIEs, technical leaders, and distinguished engineers. Many of these people return every year. Let me take you on a walk down memory lane, to demonstrate how the team has changed at each level over time. In 2015, we needed to redesign the data center for Cisco Live Europe. I led this project. If I had to add a new VLAN, it meant manually configuring four switches, four UCS fabrics, and 16 compute hosts. Carefully applying the necessary commands on all of the devices took a good 20 minutes – while the network was running. I didn’t want to ever do that again. So, since I had been spreading the message of automation at Cisco Live in various breakout sessions, it was time to practice what I preached. I began to build scripts that would automate the whole process. At the 2016 Cisco Live, none of the configuration had to be applied by hand. Instead of taking 20 minutes to configure one VLAN, four new VLANs were created in two minutes. This successful use of automation was addictive. The next year, since we were using a similar data center architecture, I spent more time building scripts to monitor the health of the data center, the services running in it and the network itself. This allowed all of us to proactively mitigate potential issues, such as routing table changes, DHCP pool exhaustion, interfaces going into an error-disabled state and devices becoming unreachable. Network interactions are changing – from manual configuration to driven by automation and orchestration and now highly intent-focused. However, what will not change is the need for engineers at every skill level. Junior engineers will use more web-based portals or Application Programming Interface (API) invocations to interact with the network. They’ll use the terminal less. Senior engineers will use web-based tools, too, but they will be simulating new network designs and architectures. They will also use APIs to build custom integrations that tie the network tightly to the core business, creating a true digital differentiator. And as the landscape continues to shift and change, the value of the network engineer is higher than ever. To learn more about how you can take your networking career to the next level, explore our course on We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tWhat better place to spend the first week in June than sunny Las Vegas? InfoComm 2018 is headed to Vegas and so are we. We’re packing up our demo equipment and heading to the Las Vegas Convention Center to share more intuitive ways to work from June 6 to 8. When you’re working on something with other people, you want to be able to focus on the project – not the tools you use to communicate. Cisco Webex is a more intuitive way to work. We’ve securely combined calling, meeting, and team collaboration in the cloud. And we’ve made it so easy to use, the technology fades into the background and lets your team’s ideas come through. If you’ve ever wanted to get your hands (or fingerprints) on our video systems or check out the rest of our portfolio, here’s your chance. Check out how easy it is to use the Cisco Webex Board. Visit our booth to discover how Cisco to create the environment to innovate, exchange ideas, and get things done. And take advantage of theater presentations in our booth from Cisco experts and our partners (schedule below). Visit the Learn more about Check out the presentations in our booth theater. All times local. Topics and schedule subject to change. 10:00a Everything But the Kitchen Sink – The Many New Faces of Webex10:00a Anyone Can Use Webex Meetings10:00a Everything But the Kitchen Sink – The Many New Faces of WebexWe'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\t  CorpFlex, an SAP Service Provider with over 100 SAP clients, has enjoyed increased flexibility, reduced TCO, and a 40% performance gain from deploying on HyperFlex.  Barroso Santos, CorpFlex’s CTO, discussed the advantages of HyperFlex in a recent   Please join SAP’s EVP for Platforms, Dr. Franz Faerber, and Cisco’s VP for Cloud Solutions, Kip Compton, at their     And no mission critical application landscape is complete without considering your   Finally, as one might expect from the undisputed leader in This Sapphire week promises to be great fun for Cisco as we unveil our powerful new SAP solutions.  And befitting the home of the Magic Kingdom, we’re also entertaining our guests with some astounding magical illusions.   Come by booth #550 and prepare to be amazed. Assuming we get final approval from Legal, we might even saw somebody in half! Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tLike you, I am eagerly awaiting the There are several other Cisco Live offers a vast collection of technologies and innovations to its attendees, and I would not be able to do justice covering them all. For the remainder of this blog, I will focus on Tetration Analytics, Network Assurance Engine and Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) highlights. The logical place to start is with Cisco Exec Ishmael Limkakeng’s Innovation Talk on the Let us now segue into ACI and the Tetration Analytics and CNAE Several ACI, Tetration and CNAE breakouts feature prominently among a large collection of 1,000 plus breakout sessions this year with several experts addressing hot topics in container networking, operations, deployment, ACI App Center.   There are also demo sessions featuring Tetration and ACI eco-system partner solutions. I recommend a few PSO breakouts that I consider relevant to current Data Center trends. Daniel McGinnis, Senior Director, Data Center Marketing, is presenting a Other key business-focused PSO sessions to attend include Most of you by now will be raring to make a beeline to theThis year, we are showcasing a big collection of solution demos spanning multiple architectures including UCS, ACI, Tetration Analytics, CNAE, tech-partner ecosystem solutions, security etc. It will take me several blogs to cover them all, so I will stick to my focus areas, ACI, Tetration, CNAE and ecosystem solution demos.  Solutions from hundreds of Cisco technology partners are on display in the world of solutions.   It’s your opportunity to explore the broader Cisco partner ecosystem, find answers to specific networking challenges, and hear unique perspectives from Cisco engineers and partners. Monday through Thursday, world of solutions remains open throughout the day. Our ACI and Tetration Analytics, CNAE, ecosystem solutions and demo showcase focuses on typical customer care-abouts. The demos include ACI Anywhere, ACI Multi-site, ACI services manager integration, Tetration as a service among major ones.  Tetration is getting rave reviews with Partners and Customers and features prominently with demos on Automatic Policy Enforcement, Application segmentation and Ecosystem Partner solutions. There’s more, so please stop by our Cisco data center demo booths for a detailed engagement with one of our subject matter experts. Also, this year we’ll be premiering an “Ask me anything” session, June 13, 2.30 PM EDT, featuring ACI/Tetration/CNAE at the campus theater in world of solutions. Cisco subject matter expert Tim Stack and myself will host this session. If you have some time, please plan to attend the Cisco DC and Campus Theater presentations – it runs every 15 minutes. Many of these are condensed breakouts and cover customer top of mind topics. These short duration presentations give you an overview on key topics such as how Tetration and ACI’s open API have enabled a broad L4-L7 eco-system with Citrix, F5, Splunk, ServiceNow, Tufin, AlgoSec et al.. There are several others you can choose from in the agenda planner. I am personally leading several ACI/Tetration presentations in Partner Theaters (Citrix, Splunk, NetBrain, AlgoSec), Monday-Thursday. Check the respective Partner Theater lobby for timings and schedules. Another highlight at the WOS is The DevNet Zone, Cisco’s software developer resource and community brought to you live. This is where we help developers and network engineers innovate using Cisco technologies and platforms. I am sure most of you developers will benefit from the One of the key pillars that made Cisco ACI phenomenally successful is the Open and Secure eco-system of 65 plus leading partners that have built joint, integrated solutions with ACI.  Over past 6 months our Tetration ecosystem has grown to a significant 19+ partners and CNAE ecosystem to 10+ partners. Let me start with our strategic ACI ecosystem partner Citrix. Our Citrix-Cisco joint solution excitement awaits you in booth #2107. Citrix theme “This is how the future works” aligns well with Cisco’s theme “Imagine-Intuitive” in all their theater sessions and booth demos. Check out the latest demo on cloud orchestrator mode of deploying ACI with NetScaler. The highlight includes Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins’s visit to Citrix booth, on June 12. Besides, Cisco’s Ahmed Dessouki and I will be presenting on ACI-NetScaler topic at the Citrix Mini Theater. It is truly action unlimited at the Citrix booth during the whole event. Here are the highlights: Monday, June 11, 1.30 PM, Campus solutions theater: Completing your Digital Transformation with Smart Load Balancing, by Ashish Shah. Monday, 4.35 PM, Investments village, ACI integrated load balancing and application services for an Intent-based L2-L7 Network” by Ashish Shah. June 11 – 14: Daily demos featuring, Intent-based Application Services with ACI Integration, Cisco Tetration integration with Avi’s analytics-driven load balancing, and complementing APM from App Dynamics with App Insights from Avi. Also, we have key ecosystem partners Splunk (#1438), Turbonomic (#1243), AlgoSec (#1675), BlueCat (#1919), Tufin(#1521), Avi Networks(#2506), SevOne (#1721) and many others showcasing Networking/Analytics joint solutions with Cisco at their respective booths. Please stop at the partner pavilion to get a detailed tour. We also want you to have lots of fun amidst your busy schedule. Cisco customers will be in for a treat at the Customer Appreciation Event this year.  Universal studios Florida Theme Park  will be the setting for this spectacular celebration on With a diverse array of musical styles including country, rock, soul, and alternative it is sure to be an event you won’t want to miss. I hope you enjoy the event, and paint the town red.  And for those who are new, don’t feel overwhelmed as I have been there.  Our Cisco ambassadors will meet and greet you, and make you feel at home.  Do not hesitate to ask Cisco staff what you are looking for, and enjoy the show! We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tLike you, I am eagerly awaiting the There are several other Cisco Live offers a vast collection of technologies and innovations to its attendees, and I would not be able to do justice covering them all. For the remainder of this blog, I will focus on Tetration Analytics, Network Assurance Engine and Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) highlights. The logical place to start is with Cisco Exec Ishmael Limkakeng’s Innovation Talk on the Let us now segue into ACI and the Tetration Analytics and CNAE Several ACI, Tetration and CNAE breakouts feature prominently among a large collection of 1,000 plus breakout sessions this year with several experts addressing hot topics in container networking, operations, deployment, ACI App Center.   There are also demo sessions featuring Tetration and ACI eco-system partner solutions. I recommend a few PSO breakouts that I consider relevant to current Data Center trends. Daniel McGinnis, Senior Director, Data Center Marketing, is presenting a Other key business-focused PSO sessions to attend include Most of you by now will be raring to make a beeline to theThis year, we are showcasing a big collection of solution demos spanning multiple architectures including UCS, ACI, Tetration Analytics, CNAE, tech-partner ecosystem solutions, security etc. It will take me several blogs to cover them all, so I will stick to my focus areas, ACI, Tetration, CNAE and ecosystem solution demos.  Solutions from hundreds of Cisco technology partners are on display in the world of solutions.   It’s your opportunity to explore the broader Cisco partner ecosystem, find answers to specific networking challenges, and hear unique perspectives from Cisco engineers and partners. Monday through Thursday, world of solutions remains open throughout the day. Our ACI and Tetration Analytics, CNAE, ecosystem solutions and demo showcase focuses on typical customer care-abouts. The demos include ACI Anywhere, ACI Multi-site, ACI services manager integration, Tetration as a service among major ones.  Tetration is getting rave reviews with Partners and Customers and features prominently with demos on Automatic Policy Enforcement, Application segmentation and Ecosystem Partner solutions. There’s more, so please stop by our Cisco data center demo booths for a detailed engagement with one of our subject matter experts. Also, this year we’ll be premiering an “Ask me anything” session, June 13, 2.30 PM EDT, featuring ACI/Tetration/CNAE at the campus theater in world of solutions. Cisco subject matter expert Tim Stack and myself will host this session. If you have some time, please plan to attend the Cisco DC and Campus Theater presentations – it runs every 15 minutes. Many of these are condensed breakouts and cover customer top of mind topics. These short duration presentations give you an overview on key topics such as how Tetration and ACI’s open API have enabled a broad L4-L7 eco-system with Citrix, F5, Splunk, ServiceNow, Tufin, AlgoSec et al.. There are several others you can choose from in the agenda planner. I am personally leading several ACI/Tetration presentations in Partner Theaters (Citrix, Splunk, NetBrain, AlgoSec), Monday-Thursday. Check the respective Partner Theater lobby for timings and schedules. Another highlight at the WOS is The DevNet Zone, Cisco’s software developer resource and community brought to you live. This is where we help developers and network engineers innovate using Cisco technologies and platforms. I am sure most of you developers will benefit from the One of the key pillars that made Cisco ACI phenomenally successful is the Open and Secure eco-system of 65 plus leading partners that have built joint, integrated solutions with ACI.  Over past 6 months our Tetration ecosystem has grown to a significant 19+ partners and CNAE ecosystem to 10+ partners. Let me start with our strategic ACI ecosystem partner Citrix. Our Citrix-Cisco joint solution excitement awaits you in booth #2107. Citrix theme “This is how the future works” aligns well with Cisco’s theme “Imagine-Intuitive” in all their theater sessions and booth demos. Check out the latest demo on cloud orchestrator mode of deploying ACI with NetScaler. The highlight includes Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins’s visit to Citrix booth, on June 12. Besides, Cisco’s Ahmed Dessouki and I will be presenting on ACI-NetScaler topic at the Citrix Mini Theater. It is truly action unlimited at the Citrix booth during the whole event. Here are the highlights: Monday, June 11, 1.30 PM, Campus solutions theater: Completing your Digital Transformation with Smart Load Balancing, by Ashish Shah. Monday, 4.35 PM, Investments village, ACI integrated load balancing and application services for an Intent-based L2-L7 Network” by Ashish Shah. June 11 – 14: Daily demos featuring, Intent-based Application Services with ACI Integration, Cisco Tetration integration with Avi’s analytics-driven load balancing, and complementing APM from App Dynamics with App Insights from Avi. Also, we have key ecosystem partners Splunk (#1438), Turbonomic (#1243), AlgoSec (#1675), BlueCat (#1919), Tufin(#1521), Avi Networks(#2506), SevOne (#1721) and many others showcasing Networking/Analytics joint solutions with Cisco at their respective booths. Please stop at the partner pavilion to get a detailed tour. We also want you to have lots of fun amidst your busy schedule. Cisco customers will be in for a treat at the Customer Appreciation Event this year.  Universal studios Florida Theme Park  will be the setting for this spectacular celebration on With a diverse array of musical styles including country, rock, soul, and alternative it is sure to be an event you won’t want to miss. I hope you enjoy the event, and paint the town red.  And for those who are new, don’t feel overwhelmed as I have been there.  Our Cisco ambassadors will meet and greet you, and make you feel at home.  Do not hesitate to ask Cisco staff what you are looking for, and enjoy the show!   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join Who doesn’t love a good motorcycle racing game, right? How about one easily available on Google Play, a “safe” place for all your Android app desires? How about a bike racing game that sticks with you so much, you can’t easily uninstall it? And it displays hidden ads? Wait, what!? That’s right! In the slideshow below, a game titled This slideshow requires JavaScript. So how does one get into such a predicament? That all starts with the install process. Upon installing Okay, so obviously a bike racing game requesting device administrator rights with permission to After the initial weirdness of asking for heightened privileges, the app does open and run as advertised. This slideshow requires JavaScript. Don’t expect the game to perform well, though. It runs so slow and choppy, it makes for an unpleasant experience. This is because it’s doing something much more malicious in the background. After the first time the device’s screen is locked/unlocked, it becomes clear why This slideshow requires JavaScript. At this point, any user would be ready to ditch this two-wheeled game. However, if the game was given device administrator rights, this isn’t as straightforward as simply dragging the icon to However, you can also uninstall the app manually. Let’s start with dragging the icon to Make sure to note the “Next, select Click the Here’s an extra reminder, as this is the tricky part: Anytime you need to uninstall an app manually, you’re looking for the app name listed after the colon from first warning pop-up: Back to uninstalling the app. After you select the check mark, you’ll get to this screen. Click “After device administrator rights are revoked, once again drag the icon to Even when installing apps from reputable sources like Google Play, be careful when you grant device administrator rights. Although there are times when it’s appropriate to grant such rights to an app, make sure the rights line up with the functionality of the app. Giving device administrator rights to a respectable security app in order to remediate ransomware makes sense. A bike racing game needn’t be given the same rights. Why would they need to lock your screen? With a little scrutiny and a lot of paying attention to the fine print, you can protect yourself from malicious apps that slip by Google Play’s security parameters. Stay safe out there!  \t\t\t  From supporting soldiers in the battlefield or first responders at a disaster scene, to maintaining high-value infrastructure, access to highly secure broadband for voice, video, and data communications is critical. And since disaster can strike in some of the world’s most inhospitable and remote places, lives often depend on communication equipment operating in hostile environments. These applications require highly specialized solutions. For example, forward-deployed military vehicular units require compact, light-weight, self-powered, man-portable, communication modules. In addition, these modules must be rugged, quickly and easily mounted, and set up to provide reliable connectivity to military personnel groups of various sizes. Off-the-shelf switches simply do not meet all of these needs. With this in mind, at the Samuel Pasquier, Director, Product Management, Industrial IoT Networking at Cisco had this to say after returning from the conference: Using the Matthew Ratnesar, Senior Director, Product Line Management and Solutions at Cubic Mission Systems offered this assessment: When you have to carry communications gear on your back, you want it to be small, light, and ready to operate in any environment. In addition to mobility, you need all the right ports and a ruggedness that protects it from heat, shocks and vibrations, and tampering. Of course, the last thing you need is a power hog. With the Frank Murray, the CTO of Klas Telecom, had this to say about the As Charlie Kawasaki, Chief Technical Officer of PacStar noted: Lynn Bamford, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Defense Solutions division of Curtiss-Wright added: The compact size and low power characteristics of Oil and gas companies operate in some pretty remote places, and require reliable networks to ensure safety, higher efficiency and investment protection of high-value assets. Communication gear in these applications require reduced SWaP, ability to operate in extreme temperatures, tolerance to shock and vibration and ingress protection. Cisco partners and integrators can develop switches leveraging While demands may differ in the field of transportation – automotive, rail or aviation, they are no less important. From surveillance and security, to advanced telematics, vehicles in motion need access to connected services. The compact size, board configuration options, 1G/10G capabilities, and optimized power consumption are just a few of the advantages of our embedded networking portfolio. The With the   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tAutomation. Predictive services. Security. It seems like almost every customer I meet in the Americas wants to use automation to reduce costs and increase agility. Or they see If you join me at the Services PSO sessions, you’ll hear about all three of these topics, including a case study about   Of course, none of these offers matter if customers aren’t using them to their full potential. That’s why I am most excited about the way we onboard customers and help them adopt the technologies they buy. Technical Support Manager Tony Soares is going to deliver a campus theatre session you won’t want to miss. Tony will explain how Technical Onboarding  Adoption can help you   Cisco Live US runs from June 10  Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tWhat is great about Cisco Webex Teams is that I can start working on the desktop client and pick up where I left off when I go mobile via my iOS or Android client. Since both the desktop and mobile clients support notifications, I never have to worry about receiving an important message from a team that I’m collaborating with. In addition to these benefits, there are a number of API’s that allow you to create Recently I’ve had the opportunity to get to work with the powerful tools that This opens up a variety of use cases where we can take advantage of the Webex Teams API’s to do really cool things! For example, we could Let’s get started! I already have AppD monitoring a couple of my own Webex Teams Bots, so let’s setup App Dynamics and a Webex Teams Bot to do the following in case a server I’m monitoring restarts. Here is a high level view of the architecture. When AppD discovers a restart, I would like the following to happen: Here is a high-level view of the call flow. AppDynamics/Triage WebEx Teams Bot High Level Call Flow    In order for the monitor and alert functionality to work on AppDynamics, you need to create a Policy that defines the criteria that you want to monitor and the action that you want to take. In order to do this, log into your controller and click the “Alert  Respond” Tab. Once you are on the “Alert  Respond” Tab, you will want to choose your application from the drop down menu and then click “Policies”. This will take you to a list where you can edit, delete and create new policies. Path to creating your Alert and Respond Policy for your application workflow.  If you have not already done so, create/add a policy. The monitoring criteria can be performance metrics, health rules related to business transaction performance or specific events like a server restart. It can really be anything you like. For example, say some of your business transactions start slowing down to unacceptable level. Trigger the alert! For the sake of simplicity, I’ve decided to go with a simple server restart. In order to take action with an HTTP Request, we first have to define an HTTP Request Template. With the policy and HTTP Request defined for our case, when a server that we are monitoring restarts, the AppD controller will fire an HTTP Request to our AppD Triage Bot. Creating an HTTP Request Template is fairly straight forward and I’d recommend checking out the documentation for a quick primer. The main things you will need to fill out in the form includes: It is this HTTP Request Payload that we need to customize that will allow us to really differentiate our bot and provide a lot of context to our Webex Teams triage space. The body will be a JSON dictionary that will contain two arrays, defined in the following way: The team members are pretty easily populated, but how do we get events? Well, fortunately, the gurus at AppD allow scripting of the here is the JSON body snippet for the payload template: Let’s break it down. The first dictionary entry, When the HTTP Request is fired, the JSON body looks something like this: The resulting JSON body looks like this: Now that we have created the HTTP Template, we need to go back into the Policy we created and assign an action. So go back, edit your policy, select “Actions” and then add the newly created HTTP Template. Adding an action to our newly created policy.    Now let’s look at the Triage Bot code. It is a simple Python based Flask application that takes the request, parses the JSON payload, and creates the Webex Teams space. So let’s break down the code. The first part is standard pretty simple. We take the HTTP request, verify it’s coming from our AppD controller via a token embedded in the request and then fire a function, build_triage_room, that takes the request payload and builds the space. We will do the following: Now let’s take a look at how we do this in code: Here is a screenshot of the finished product! Newly created Triage Webex Teams space. Note the hyperlink which will take the team members directly to the issue within AppDynamics.  So, to wrap up, we took two different Cisco products and tied them together to make something greater than the sum of their parts. We utilized AppDynamics alerting and monitoring functionality to trigger a Cisco Webex Teams Bot to: Hopefully you can see the possibilities that leveraging the AppD functionality and Cisco Webex Teams API’s allow. The code for the bot can be found on the Good Luck!  Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tTalos is disclosing a denial-of-service vulnerability in the Ocularis Recorder. Ocularis is a video management software (VMS) platform used in a variety of settings, from convenience stores, to city-wide deployments. An attacker can trigger this vulnerability by crafting a malicious network packet that causes a process to terminate, resulting in a denial of service. We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tOrganizations today need to be both nimble and secure. They’re adopting Cloud, IoT, and machine learning at increasingly quickening speed as well as evolving their applications and endpoints as well as campus, data center, and WAN networking to adapt to their digital business as well as address security risks. At the same time that compliance regimes are a moving target putting increasing pressure on organizations. In this ever changing world, many organizations struggle with maintaining good security and compliance hygiene. Year over year, IT departments attempt to manage through compliance drift as networks evolve, new systems are added, configuration changes are made, and knowledgeable individuals leave their teams. Poor audit management practices increase audit fatigue and risk even higher rates of attrition. Add requirements for risk assessments, penetration tests, privacy impact assessments, and robust processes; not to mention the pressures of being able to identify and respond to an evolving security threat landscape and the operational pressures, including OpEx spending, can be immense. Fortunately, Cisco Business Critical Services can help our customers Business Critical Services is the next generation of subscription based Business Critical Services includes a wealth of offers, or deliverables, which help customers reduce compliance drift, decrease operational churn, and drive increased compliance fidelity regardless of the compliance requirement. From automated compliance hygiene to Privacy Impact Analysis, Business Critical Services enables customers to right size a solution that meets most compliance requirements they face. For example, a customer that must be compliant to the Payment Card Industry – Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) may choose to take advantage of the following In addition, Taken together, this robust set of subscription based offers within Business Critical Services can help customers address both the most mundane and repetitive, but critical, security tasks, drive security improvement through assessments and training, and both set and help execute strategic security direction at our customers. I can’t think of any other security company on the planet that can match this comprehensive set of security and threat management services and deliver them under an If you’re attending Check out our Business Critical Services and Incident Response demos, talk to experts at the World of Solutions and attend a solution briefing entitled,                 Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tNetwork technologies have evolved rapidly, providing users with higher bandwidth, faster big data analytics, and service offerings, but 5G will be different. 5G disruptions to industries will be massive, bringing about the increased deployment of machine-to-machine (M2M) communications and Internet of Things (IoT) applications. The growth of 5G-enabled services for different industry verticals means service providers will need to look into how their network architecture can meet 5G requirements to capture these new business opportunities. We believe that using Network Functions Virtualization (NFV) and Software-Defined Networking (SDN) to implement control and user plane separation can enable scalability and flexibility of network configurations for 5G requirements. In addition, it also provides ease-of-operation for future services through network automation. There are three categories of 5G use cases : Each service has unique requirements for its applications that it mandates to the transport infrastructure. For example, eMBB requires high bandwidth and relaxed latency; mMTC requires low bandwidth and massive connection scale; and uRLLC requires high bandwidth, ultra-reliability, and ultra-low latency. Cisco 5G Innovation uses the network in a programmable-manner to remain relevant to these applications. As governments around the world invest in smart cities development, 5G uRLLC and mMTC will play a major role in autonomous vehicles and smart transportation and homes, connecting billions of IP-based devices. While 5G’s uRLLC and eMBB  is expected to be key for sophisticated healthcare services like remote surgery. Cisco is working with Hyundai to develop a hyper-connected intelligent car. A configurable and secure platform set up within the car using Software Defined Vehicle (SDV) architecture and end-to-end networking, including tactile internet. The new platform will enable new, high-speed services through an integration layer between software 5G’s reliability and ultra-low latency intervals can help improve the quality of healthcare. It can boost the capability of robots to learn to recognize new objects and perform complex tasks by leveraging on tactile internet, the encoding of physical interaction. The number of use cases for 5G is growing and we have a comprehensive suite of offerings ready to help: The number of internet connected devices is expected to connect more than 27.1 billion    Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tCisco Live in Orlando next week will be an exciting time that will include new product announcements, but as a preview, I wanted to share a demo I’ve been working on with my friends in Enterprise Networking that involves the intersection of serverless and edge computing: We’re looking for pilot customers in this area, so come see us at the Innovation Forum to check out Function Router! Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tImplementing the best of breed of Cisco technology is exciting. At Cisco Live, I’m sure you will feel this excitement and be energized by all the innovation surrounding you. You will make investment decisions, you will implement the technology, integrate it with what is already running, and you will be looking for proof of how the technology not just supports but directly drives your business growth. With ever increasing network complexity and ever increasing threats, mitigating the risk of a ‘network down’ scenario is paramount. Today, like any other day, over 5000 TAC engineers are engaging with customers to solve their most complex network issues. At a scale of over 2 million engagements per year and across all technologies, serving more than 200,000 customers. The breadth and depth of knowledge accumulated during the 30 years that TAC is operating is unparalleled in the industry. The And yet your expectations as customers are changing.  You not only expect stellar service when something breaks but also you wantus to help prevent issues from happening in the first place and to mitigate any potential risk.  You expect proactive and effortless engagements.  To be called instead of needing to call when you need help.  You expect us to share our knowledge, to make it actionable and relevant for your network, to infuse this knowledge in your workflows, to automate where possible, and when you still need to talk to a person make this extremely easy. We listened and created a strategy to deliver on this mission:  Your network should never be impacted by an issue we know about or can predict. Our wealth of knowledge is being digitized at an accelerated pace and we use it to automate, augment and act. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning run on top of data we have access to, let us predict anomalies and gives us a way to let you benefit even more from what we analyze across our customer base. Continuously refined, continuously refreshed. TAC is focusing its innovation on your changing reality and expectations. We talk to you every day, so we know what you are looking for: automation, augmentation and proactive, effortless action, delivered at scale. During a PSO session on Wednesday, I’ll talk more about this and show you an automated diagnostics and remediation system being piloted in the market today. You can I’m looking forward to the dialogue!   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join There are two kinds of spam associated with social media. There are spam ads that actually live on social media, and there is spam that comes in your inbox, courtesy of social media. Both thrive by using data from your social media accounts. But how do spammers know how to target you and send you the mails that you are most likely to click on? There is a real chance that you revealed that information yourself. To understand the relationship between the spam you get in your mailbox, your social media presence, and the ways that criminals try to scam users, you must first understand a few basic principles about how advertising works on social media. First of all, let’s differentiate between the spam we see on social media and the spam that we get in the mail, but has a relationship with what we interact with on social media. Spam that we see on social media is called This is the foundation of what people perceive as “Facebook and Google knowing about every search I do and every article I read.” If you are interested in limiting the number of personalized ads you see on social media, Google offers an opt-out of interest-based Google ads in There are several different options for opting out of interest-based advertising. For example, if you do not want to see any advertisements on the sites you visit, you should look into installing an adblocker. Keep in mind that many sites can only stay in business because they are funded by advertising—that doesn’t mean they have the right to invade your privacy, though. If you are a Facebook user and wondering whether it pays off to log off after every session, according to Facebook, it does. Logging off But that is not the only way companies utilize social media for targeted advertising. The Facebook pixel is another marketing tool. A pixel is a tiny object that can be placed on websites that use re-marketing based on which other sites their visitors have looked at. To the visitor these pixels are invisible, unless they have an anti-tracking tool installed. If the visitor is considered interesting enough for the websites’ company, a targeted advertisement will be placed on the visitors’ Facebook page. This is why you will regularly see advertisements from companies whose website you have visited recently. For the webmaster, the pixel offers a lot more perks, but for the visitor it simply means more data mining is taking place. Every site (including our own) that has buttons to share or promote an article on social media does send information about you to their respective owners (again, unless you are using an anti-tracking solution). Based on what articles you share, like, or otherwise engage with, social media networks can spot patterns and recognize your interests. While interest-based advertising is something we have learned to cope with, even though it may seem scary how much “they” know about us, it is far less dangerous than the spam you may receive based on your online behavior. Why? Let’s dive in. While the huge, blanket spam campaigns that ensnare millions of email addresses still exist, todays A successful, targeted spam email trumps an annoying breach of trust that still delivers mostly legitimate ads. All it takes is one email to fake out an unsuspecting user into providing their own crucial information to criminals, who can then infect your computer, steal your data, or simply spy on you. But it’s got to be pretty difficult to get that information from users, right? Providing spammers with the knowledge to scam you more effectively is probably not what you had in mind when you joined your social media network(s). But of course, we never reveal sensitive, personal information on our social media accounts. Or do we? If some scammer had the email associated with this Twitter account, they could pull off a real convincing scam attempt. And if you are the intended target, the threat actors It is actually terrifying to know how the tiniest amount of information in the wrong hands can have a devastating impact on your life. There are two main categories of fraudulent spam: fake login requests and the Nigerian Prince variety. The first category can be very convincing, especially if the emails seem to come from your actual bank. But if your bank sends out emails soliciting login credentials, I would advise switching to another bank (because they shouldn’t be doing that). The emails themselves will have convincing logos and even appear to come from email addresses belonging to the bank or a credit card provider. And the websites they send you to are exact copies (content wise) of the real one, even including a Before you check any such mail, remember that your bank should never send you such an email in the first place. But if you look for these signs, you will see right through them. And the signs apply to many other cases like Netflix or iTunes scams. Ways to spot a targeted spam campaign include: These started out as ridiculous messages from a Nigerian prince who claimed, “We have a huge amount of money waiting for you here in a strange and far away country, and all we need from you is a little payment and some information to transfer it into your bank account.” Users duped by this scam would never see their original payment back, let alone the huge amount of cash promised to them. This type of scam has evolved to into many different stories and is nowadays also used to recruit And, guess what? You don’t need a computer or email to get scammed either. It only takes a little bit of information, a good story, and a friendly victim to get scammed. A woman gets a text from her brother telling her he has a new phone number, but now he can’t log in to his bank, and he needs to make an urgent payment. Can she do it for him? He’ll pay her back as soon as he has everything sorted. The message has her brother’s avatar and the story seems plausible. Not everyone will fall for this, but probably enough to make it worth trying. You don’t need to do much digging on someone’s Facebook profile to gather everything you need to spam and scam victims. As much as it may pain you, don’t be that friendly person. In the last scenario, you should tell your brother to call you. That isn’t too much to ask if he needs your help that urgently, is it? And dump those scammy emails in the trash where they belong. Should you ever really be in doubt whether some email actually came from your bank, they won’t mind if you call them to verify that information. In fact, they will be glad that you were so cautious. Now if only we could get everyone to be more cautious about what they share on social media. Stay safe!  \t\t\tIt’s always sunny in Florida. Except late night. Course that’s when the real fun kicks in. Dining out. Music. Parties. Okay, and maybe some rest. In fact, anything you can imagine related to IT will be there. That includes IT that I’m looking forward to walking the floor at the I’m envisioning my grandmother’s pill bottle automatically ordering her refills and then delivering them to her via drone. Or crops telling farmers the perfect time to harvest, so fruits and vegetables are ready for sale at their peak. Even media detecting our mood and changing the entertainment they send our way. Since I’ll speak the following day, expanding on Bryan’s theme to discuss how to embrace the decision economy. This is a must if your organization wants to thrive in our increasingly digital world. On average, nearly 40 percent of today’s top 10 market leaders will be displaced by digital disruption in the next five years, with a significant shakeout in the next 36 months. It’s not just market leaders that will be hit. Forty-one percent of all companies are risk of extinction by digital disruption. But that doesn’t have to be the case. While only 25 percent of companies are actively responding to disruption, it’s not because they don’t want to. Some have decided to take a “wait-and-see” approach, while others aren’t sure what to do because they haven’t experienced this before. I believe it all begins with understanding that digital disruption is changing the rules of value creation. I’ll share more about these new rules—and what your enterprise can do—when I speak on June 14. Meanwhile, I’ll be around Cisco Live all week, talking with customers and partners. And looking for that next big thing to completely change our world. Hope to see you there. When I return home to Chicago, I’ll post a blog updating you on what I learned and experienced in sunny Orlando. Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tLet’s focus on the Zero Trust approach first. If your infrastructure was on the Internet, how would you design your organization’s cybersecurity framework? With those questions to get you thinking about where to start, lets now talk about the 9 Domains that make up the Forrester Zero Trust Model: A good book to read on Zero Trust is from the Beyond Corp team at Google; It discusses guiding principles and benefits.  Using that type of model here’s a brief overview of how a number of Cisco products map to those principles. Food for thought as you are thinking about zero trust in your environment. For anyone in the cybersecurity business, we recommend reading the O’Reilly book and to talk with Cisco about our comprehensive approach to  Zero Trust and all the other security frameworks out there.  We have the product capabilities and expertise to help you determine a systems approach to Zero Trust, based on your organization’s needs. This blog post was co-authored by Cisco employee Jeff Fawcett, Consulting Principal Director.   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tIn a case study presentation next Monday at Cisco Live, you can learn how a large non-profit hospital group with over 17,000 employees rolled out a new electronic medical records (EMR) system (Epic) on an ACI fabric in an application-centric design.  The most widely used electronic health record (EHR) application by hospitals and health systems, Epic supports the electronic records of 190 million patients around the world. Epic Systems are mission critical for hospitals. They must be deployed securely and meet specific performance criteria for healthcare professionals. Epic’s critical and pervasive role in ProMedica’s operations demanded continuous availability. So it was determined that both of ProMedica’s data centers, which are roughly 20 miles apart, would actively sustain the new application. ? Ben Vickers, Director of IT, ProMedica Not only did the data center network need to be rock solid, it also had to be deployed in a matter of weeks. To attain application certification from Epic, the network environment had to be in place prior to scheduled performance testing by Epic specialists. “A key initial task was to map the Epic application topology and define the policy based automation to be used for deployment and security. It started by transforming the high level logical view of Epic here in Fig. 1 Figure 1 Epic Software Subsystems and Connectivity Mapped Into an Epic application network profile, ANP,  like this in Fig. 2 Figure 2 Epic Application Network Profile in ACI As a result, the ANP allows the Application Policy Infrastructure Controller or APIC, to automatically control the network infrastructure at the two sites. With Epic deployed on ACI, ProMedica IT achieved the following results: Benjamin Vickers, Director of IT – Network, Messaging, Database and Unified Communications, Information Technology Services at ProMedica will share the challenges his IT team faced, the solution, the deployment, and the results ProMedica obtained with help of Cisco AS and CDW for their ACI deployment.    Learn how Cisco ACI was instrumental for ProMedica to achieve its goals with this and other key corporate applications. Here is a link to the Cisco Live session.  We would like to see you  next week. For More Info: We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tThe first Cisco Talos Threat Research Summit coming up at Cisco Live! in Orlando, so we are providing a quick guide to all the activities going on at the summit and beyond. The response to the summit was stronger than we could have anticipated for the first year – it sold out fast!  Next time, we definitely need a bigger boat. Whether or not you have a ticket to the summit, read on for a guide of how to stay on top of what’s happening in Orlando, and how you can connect with ALL the events Talos is holding around Cisco Live! 2018 –   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\t… is actually sweeter in this case. The well-regarded managed service creation and delivery platform formerly known as Cisco Virtual Managed Services (VMS) is now the And speaking of growth … We are pleased to announce the release of MSX 3.3, featuring a number of new features and enhancements that increase the platform’s security and improve usability. A few of the enhancements to MSX include … Preloaded template data simplifies service creation and deployment and accelerates time to market. Cleaner, clearer user interfaces make it easier for service providers to monitor and manage service status and device performance. Improved platform security to protect from DDoS, and malware, and other threats, ensures mission critical services continue uninterrupted. Additional enhancements include cleaner, clearer and more complete dashboards; improved integration with our industry-leading service packs for virtual “plug and play” services; and overall improvements to platform stability and availability. In short, we didn’t just improve the name, we improved the product’s operations, functionality, and reliability. If you’re attending So remember,   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tI recently led a project to develop a hands-on product demonstration for customers.  A group of us across the United States and India worked together to create demos. I started the project by creating a space in With the recent Yet, the This means a single person is no longer responsible for meeting set up, start, control, and follow up. In Webex Teams, meetings begin when the first person joins — no more waiting on the host. Anyone can record. Anyone can mute noisy participants. And anything shared during the meeting lives on in the connected space so everyone can easily reference what was shared later. For our project, the impact of democratized teamwork and meetings helped drive broader team engagement. This not only helped me spend less time managing the team and our communications, but it also improved our brainstorming and problem-solving. Improved thinking is an addition to effective teamwork, but this project required more than just good ideas. We needed a blueprint to ensure that we could implement our ideas at scale. And we wanted the ability to visualize the customer journey across every touchpoint. We mapped out our final plan on the We had our plan and we were ready.  And our first event went off without a hitch!   At Cisco, we are fortunate to have Webex Boards in many of our meeting rooms. But for teams that use a mix of video devices, Webex Teams meetings let you expand the whiteboarding experience to other cloud-connected Cisco video devices. For IT managers, this can help both increase adoption and build user satisfaction while amplifying current investments. Participants joining from other devices can engage in whiteboarding sessions during a team meeting. For example: Try the expanded whiteboarding experience and see how it fuels continuous teamwork anytime, anywhere with Webex Teams. Get the We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\t  Cisco Talos, while working with our various intelligence partners, has discovered additional details regarding “Read more We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tCisco Live (June 10This year, we are bringing a fully integrated Retail experience to all corners of the show floor. There is a lot to get excited about, especially if it’s your Go ahead and put yourself in the customers’ shoes. Discover what new digital solutions excite you and retailers alike about the future of Retail, and ultimately which solutions will accelerate your business. Check out our hands on, integrated retail demos at the simulated shopping Retail Experience in Dev Net, featuring the Kinetic ToyBox. Experience retail solutions, powered by the strong foundation of a modern network. Increase employee productivity. Reinvent the customer experience. Simplify store operations. Enhance security and compliance. All so you can delight your customers and strengthen your retail business. Personalization is becoming the norm in retail. Trigger dynamic digital signage to reflect a personal greeting and indicate sensor-activated data using Cisco Vision dynamic digital signage. Launch mobile solutions enabling connected, frictionless customer experiences with our MishiPay mobile payment scan-and-go feature. Putting the customer first is the way to build your brand and keep customers coming back. Empower your employees with the tools and information to inspire the Consumer 2020. Improve your operational efficiency—and your bottom line—with digital solutions for inventory and task management. Check out our CMX-Operational Insights and our Smart Cooler demos to see how generating actionable insights gives retailers the advantage both from in-store activity as well as from digital platforms on how to best know and serve their customers. Digital solutions deliver seamless in-store experiences—potentially at the expense of a store’s security. Initiate real-time IoT data at our ToyBox demo, utilizing Cisco Vision integrated with Cisco’s retail partners Impinj and Sato Global Solutions. Remove merchandise from the shelf area without simulated payment to trigger digital signage and a security alarm. This IoT solution gives retailers a 360-degree view of their inventory on their road to digital transformation.   You can also see retail in action at the Cisco Store located in the Hub. Choose your own adventure as you virtually navigate digital retail solutions recently deployed in the Connected Cisco Store at headquarters. Experience real-time Meraki security solutions and analytics platforms in this fully functional Cisco Store too, separate from the seamless retail experience at the grab-and-go store in the World of Solutions. IoT and Automation offers over $2 Trillion in value to the retail industry through platforms that can optimize operations and improve the customer experience. By using IoT technologies as a foundation, retail customers are automating store operations, enabling mobile-first shopping and driving the omni-channel experience to exponentially increased per-store profitability. This session will deep dive into Cisco’s Retail IoT offers and discuss how you can be a part of our Retail success. Together we will discuss our Retail IoT solutions, their architecture  components and our plans for scaling them. Join us for a highly interactive  collaborative session that explores Cisco’s Retail IoT approach. Retailers want a faster and more intelligent network to enable mobile customer experiences, next generation loss prevention platforms and improved cyber security. Learn more about the true power of the partner ecosystem with our ToyBox retail store, and how this experience on our secure intelligent digital platform is unlike what anyone else can deliver.   Check out all the retail sessions and demos Can’t make it to Cisco Live this year? We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join It’s time to have “the talk” with your parents, relatives, and loved ones. Anyone still using a landline must be warned: having a home phone makes you particularly vulnerable to scams. We know here at Malwarebytes that our readers are often the unofficial “IT” department for their families, relatives, and friends. While suggesting to your folks that they discontinue having a landline might not go over well, we still need them to at least be wary of that telephone and the types of calls they might receive on it. What was once an essential communication tool is now a gateway into your home—a scam delivery mechanism. Looking at all the inbound calls that my relatives with landlines were receiving left me with a sneaky suspicion that they must have landed on a “victim list” of sorts. Types of scam calls included: While they do not wish to part with their landlines, I have investigated some other possible solutions for my relatives to avoid scams. I found some call blocker hardware. However, reviews indicated that this wasn’t particularly effective against scammers. For example, this solution wouldn’t stop tech support scammers that spoof residential numbers. I also found another device that requires a password before allowing the phone to ring from all inbound calls. Neither of these felt like an acceptable solution. Ultimately, knowledge is power, so I’m choosing to explain all the scams that they encountered. In addition, I’d like to point out our The standard, tried and true tech support scam. These are either initiated from a cold call, “Hi, I’m from Microsoft!” or by driving potential victims to make a call to “Microsoft tech support” themselves after being served a malicious pop-up or browser locker with the specific intent of tricking users into thinking their computer is infected. and they need to pay tech support to fix it. This scam has many variants. The scammers will claim to be the official support for any number of security products. They will try to impersonate Microsoft or other antivirus companies. They have even tried to There’s a simple fix for this scam. If you get a call from “Microsoft,” hang up immediately. Note that Microsoft does not send unsolicited email messages or make unsolicited phone calls to request for personal or financial information, or fix your computer. Unfortunately, most scammers have now switched to pop-ups driving the victims to initiate the call. Even worse, Scammers will impersonate institutions of authority. These types of institutions almost Use the Internet to double-check the number to call back. The scammers may try to be helpful and provide you with theirs, but a quick Google search of their phone number can tell you where they’re calling from (and if that matches with where their company headquarters is located). If the person on the other end of the line gets angry or starts threatening you, guess what? They’re a scammer. Remember, they’re trying to instill in you a sense of urgency in order to override your common sense. An especially heinous scam, this variant targets grandparents using classic psychological manipulation. The scenario is that their grandchild is calling from jail, arrested for disorderly conduct, and this is their This scam usually tries to get Grandma to send money “for bail” via MoneyGram or Western Union. So what happens if you get a call from someone claiming to be your grandchild stuck in jail? Well, much of this scam relies on grandparents being less in-the-know about their grandkids. Do they know what her voice sounds like? Her phone number? Would she If you don’t know for sure, verify with other family members. Text the child’s parents while on the landline with her. Confirm that the family member is who she claims to be by asking personal questions only the relative would know. Scammers will try to fudge through details. Some might start crying. Again, the sense of urgency is pivotal in this scam. Remember this: If your grandchild were truly in trouble and in jail, would you be the one person she would call? If that’s true, then you’d know if it were her on the other end of the line within seconds. If you’re not her go-to person, then it’s fair to ask more questions and to check in with other family members about the legitimacy of the call. You can even hang up and call back your grandchild on her cell. Chances are, she’ll pick up and have no idea who called you just now. Nowadays, you can’t just trust that your caller ID will flag suspicious numbers. The responsibility of caller ID lies with the originating call. And if that caller is a scammer, then they know caller ID is trivial to spoof. Scammers have long since figured out how to spoof numbers so that it appears they’re coming from a familiar, local area code, as it greatly increases their chances at a successful scam. Both the Microsoft tech support call and the fake IRS calls use spoofed caller ID. I demonstrated how easy spoofing was by using an app on my phone and making a call that appeared to originate from somewhere else. For a technical explanation of how caller ID spoofing works, check out When it comes to using a land line, I don’t think there’s an ideal solution—one that guarantees 100 percent safety. However, armed with the right amount of knowledge, users can easily fend off scams—and stop being afraid of their phone. Do you know someone who still has a landline? Have you had to explain scams to your relatives? Ever encounter any different scams than the one mentioned by phone? Please don’t hesitate to share your stories with us in the comments.  \t\t\tIt’s funny how the world turns. I started off in security working for a bank. The model there was very much build it, break it, fix it with our Operational Security team aligning with platform and application support teams to build the projects the business wanted. Very soon after I joined it became clear that despite our best efforts (and we were scanning our systems nightly for new vulnerabilities even 15 years ago), that sometimes things go wrong and you need logs. As a result, we kicked off a project to implement mandatory access control and auditing across our entire estate. The lessons we learnt then are still being learnt by other organisations today. Notably, in the intervening period of time, having become a security consultant, I lost count of the number of times I tried to encourage organisations for whom we were doing technical assurance work (over 50% of Fast forward to today and I’ve spent the last 6 weeks supporting Cisco’s IR team in EMEAR with some challenging cases. We’ve had a file system that got corrupted and where the customer couldn’t tell what commands had been executed to get to that point, a logging solution where important application layer logs weren’t deemed valuable enough to store and an endpoint breach where it wasn’t possible to understand who was using a given role account to access the system nor how a set of weak credentials were introduced. What do each of these 3 stories* have in common? The organisations concerned only appreciated the value of logs after the fact when we patiently explained that whilst we could work magic, that magic wouldn’t have been required, if only they’d enabled and configured logging correctly first time out. This is definitely one of the aspects of life at Cisco that I enjoy most – not only do we do the red team, which shows the destructive impact of security weaknesses but we also work with the blue team to give them a get well plan. I am so much more contented delivering Security Advisory work where we get to work with the customer on a solution to their problem than I ever was as a penetration tester landing a 300 page tome on a customer’s desk safe in the knowledge that it would be thick with dust on my return in 12 months time. Amusingly, in the process of writing this post, I came across a similar article from our US IR folks So why am I telling you this? Firstly, a slice of reality, at some stage there will be a breach and breaches are expensive (half of the incidents that we encountered in 2017 resulted in a cost of over $500K). However, Cisco is not just that sad face that meets you when things go wrong but also the friendly face that helps avoid this scenario. We’ll fly an analyst to Stockholm at the drop of a hat and spend days knee deep in vendor documentation. However, if you think that IR is all about the 4am phone calls, then please come talk to us about the * And they are made up stories, we would never discuss a specific and sensitive customer scenario. Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tAccording to IDC, by 2021, enterprises’ spending on cloud services and cloud-enabling hardware, software, and services will more than double to over $530 billion, leveraging a diversifying cloud environment that is 20% at the edge, more than 15% specialized (non-x86) compute, and more than 90% Multicloud. A high majority of enterprise IT organizations out there want to adopt multicloud now. It is thrilling to see enterprises around the world undertaking the key initiatives necessary to transform and stay ahead of the game in a multicloud era. Let’s examine what it takes to deliver the promise behind these initiatives. Embracing a multicloud world is important to increasing the pace of innovation for every company today. But it can be daunting to even large IT organizations to embark upon the multicloud journey due to seemingly never-ending complexity, fragmented solutions that got implemented over time, and no consistency or data control. IDC found that about 89% of enterprises today do not have an actionable and optimized plan for cloud. Faced with CIO directives and urgent timelines, IT teams today are under extreme pressure to claim progress in adopting multicloud. Before getting into the “how” or even a POC, enterprise IT oranizations should consider the “why” and the “what” for their selected initiatives. The “why” is about aligning the selected initiatives to needed business outcomes. For example, is IT management looking for cost reduction, agility, much-needed application technology enhancements, The “what” is about capturing your multicloud requirements, prioritizing them, identifying dependencies, and scoping what you want to accomplish and by when. This involves coming up with distinct but connected initiatives that can be phased or accomplished in a complementary fashion. Cisco’s multicloud approach and Multicloud Portfolio helps enterprise IT teams that are trying to take on a multicloud journey to determine the “why” and “what” and produce definitive multicloud requirements and an actionable plan.  1. Connect DC/Campus, CoLo, and Cloud When enterprise IT organizations decide to a public cloud as part of their IT technology mix, this initiative becomes important. It involves connecting data centers or campuses directly to the cloud or via a colocation option. Secure connectivity to a public cloud includes considering having a CoLo in between DCs and the cloud for various reasons like backup, data sovereignty, and a high-speed connection to cloud infrastructure on the backend. 2. Connect Branches Direct-to-Cloud When enterprise IT organizations with branches decide to have significant numbers of applications migrate to a public cloud or subscribe to SaaS offers, the branch’s connectivity direct to the cloud becomes important in delivering the best application user experience. Also, with the increased needs of edge computing and local analytics, it is paramount to have better and direct connectivity to the cloud applications from the edge. It essentially involves connecting branches directly to the public cloud application environments (including SaaS applications) using SD-WAN solutions with the high-speed Internet service providers locally available to each branch, as well as DNS security. 3. Build and Manage a Hybrid Cloud Modernization has been a key driver for IT organizations, with various projects supporting it, including the adoption of a public cloud in the IT mix and transforming the consumption of IT on-premises into a cloud-like experience. According to a recent IDC survey, 87% of enterprises that are using the cloud are taking steps towards creating and managing a hybrid cloud. A hybrid cloud is essentially an application infrastructure configuration that has both an on-premises private cloud and a public cloud for deploying applications in a hybrid model. An example is when the data tier is running on-premises with the web and app tier running on the public cloud. 4. Migrate and Manage Applications to Public Cloud This is the most common initiative that enterprise IT management is asking their IT engineering and LOB engineering teams to tackle, and it has the potential to be the riskiest journey that IT can take. Many enterprises migrated applications to a public cloud and then brought them back on-premises due to various reasons they did not anticipate. This initiative requires careful selection with dependency analysis, meticulous planning, and end-to-end management of the applications to be migrated to a public cloud. 5. Manage Cloud-Native Applications in Public Clouds With the onset of mature container technology and proliferation of cloud services, enterprise IT organizations and LOBs are driving the creation of new cloud-native applications or re-platforming existing applications to not only run the application better with scale at every microservice that is part of the application but to leverage cloud-native services that the application can use, such as auto-scaling of underlying Kubernetes on-prem as well as on the public cloud, serverless and cloud-agnostic application environments, and much more. Traditionally such capabilities required multiple management tools, but now auto-scaling is an attractive way to run the applications. This initiative requires bringing together networking, security, analytics and management for the cloud-native apps to span both on-premises and public cloud. 6. Burst Applications Into Public Cloud Enterprise IT organizations are familiar with this strategy of extending on-premise capacity (aka bursting) for certain applications from the data center or private cloud to a public cloud infrastructure on-demand for application runtime needs. A good example of this can be found with retailers that have on premise ecommerce processing applications, but due to seasonal demands, that application footprint and sale is not enough to manage the ecommerce demand. This initiative also is becoming common among the emerging artificial intelligence (AI) applications that burst into the designated public cloud compute infrastructure, especially for analyzing the “hot” data at the edge along and expanding compute-crunching needs. 7. Optimize SaaS Application Connectivity and Security Along with public cloud infrastructure adoption, software-as-a-service (SaaS) offers the enterprise a tremendous opportunity to realize an application’s business benefits by “renting” the application use vs. stretching to handle the management responsibilities of running it, updating it, etc. themselves. Over the last 5+ years, SaaS deliver models for applications have demonstrated their ease of use, breadth, and affordability of packaged applications in a fraction of the time and for a fraction of the cost of traditional models. But SaaS also changes the role of IT. Enterprise IT organizations can no longer guarantee that SaaS providers will meet IT’s compliance standards or use any leverage to negotiate better terms and conditions. Also, IT can do little to ensure the performance of SaaS offers from various enterprise offices, which rely on local Internet service providers – and the unpredictable internet access networks—who can impact the consistency of SaaS delivery, even in regions with highly developed Internet infrastructure. This initiative uses SD-WAN capability to optimize the network path and keep it optimized. Below is an example of how Cisco’s multicloud approach addresses the “how” in order to deliver on the promise of multicloud when it comes to an organization’s initiative to migrate applications to a public cloud. By offering a simplified approach to answering “how,” our multicloud approach helps organizations understand the capabilities needed for their chosen initiatives in order to easily and confidently select the foundational products needed for the design and implementation stages of their multicloud initiatives. Learn more about the multicloud initiatives and Cisco’s   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tModern data centers face increasing demands for agile, high performance service delivery. Digital transformations are driving an increased number of applications with more sources of data, and often times that data is critical proprietary data or in the case of healthcare providers, patient data that must be secured and protected. Enterprises need new IT options that can enable them to quickly respond to the needs of the business. For healthcare organizations, automating business processes and delivering real-time data insights are a necessity to providing better care. Healthcare IT leaders need to choose tested and proven solutions to protect patient data and meet regulatory and compliance requirements. When it comes to managing patient data and Electronic Healthcare Records (EHR), Epic software is the gold standard. 190 million patients have a current electronic record in Epic.  Implementing and deploying Epic is one of the largest, most mission-critical IT investments made by healthcare organizations, and as a result, Epic has very stringent server and storage infrastructure requirements for running their software, to ensure high availability, high performance and powerful data protections. FlexPod is pre-validated and supported by Epic best practices, meeting stringent performance requirements for low-latency and high availability.  Healthcare organizations can leverage FlexPod with Epic EHR to improve patient care by simplifying and accelerating the deployment of critical healthcare applications and protecting patient data.  Learn more about FlexPod with Epic EHR FlexPod with Epic EHR is just the first in a series of industry-specific vertical solutions for FlexPod. Stay tuned as we roll out more solutions over the coming year. For these types of applications and use cases, there’s often a need to run workloads locally or keep data on premise for data sovereignty reasons, resulting in a hesitancy to use a Customers can get the best of both worlds with the We hope to see you at Attend this session and visit NetApp booth #2005 to learn more about FlexPod.[1] Source: IDC, IDC Worldwide Quarterly Converged Systems Tracker, Q4 2017, April 03, 2018 Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tThe big topics this year include content delivery and OTT, big data, TV strategies, the Internet of Things and Industry 4.0, smart homes, the Gigabit society, future-proofed fibre and FTTH, migration from analog to digital, cloud services and network virtualization, DOCSIS 3.1 and DAA, next-generation multiscreen platforms, and much more besides—all subjects that keep us busy on a daily basis! Our own theme for 2018 also provides a pretty succinct summary of the essential characteristics for next-generation networks: ““Automated,” because network operators will not be able to manage their infrastructures in a cost-efficient way without increased levels of automation. “Intelligent,” to reflect the huge advances made with DOCSIS 3.1, Remote PHY Distributed Access Architecture (DAA) and the deployment of cloud-based, virtualised CCAP and video architectures, just to mention just a few innovations. “Simple cable redefined,” because network complexity belongs to the dark ages. “Infinite opportunities,” because the industry is engaged in a huge transformation process that will open up new service capabilities and revenue streams to benefit all. We’ll be exploring these various aspects and more over the three days of the conference, which runs from June 12-14 in Cologne. We’ll also be talking about some of our of recent major news announcements, including the launch of our As usual, we’ll be showcasing the technology that our customers are using to build their services. We’ll have live demonstrations of: We’ve also got a packed Make sure you stop by and see us in ANGA COM is a great time to meet with Cisco executives and subject matter experts. Our team will be available to meet with you to discuss your current challenges and opportunities. To request a meeting, contact your Cisco account manager. We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tGoing to be in Orlando, Florida for one of As our customers look to manage growing amounts of data, we’ve learned that legacy storage appliances simply do not scale equally for all workloads, and trying to store all data of every type in the cloud would require most firms to open a new bank account. Using a Hearing this, Cisco along with its vast Ok, enough about Cisco. Cisco has also collaborated with innovative partners to provide customers object cloud and software defined storage with the Cisco UCS S3260 storage server. These partnerships allow the S-series server to provide a full storage system that is more secure, efficient and cost effective than traditional storage solutions. Some of the preferred solution partners that I, along with my team have had the pleasure of working with at Cisco are Scality, SwiftStack, Cloudian and IBM. Each of these partners offer Cisco and storage specific expertise and technology that allow us to provide differentiated, specialized and ideal solutions that meet our joint customer’s needs. During your time at Cisco Live this year you can learn more about the perfect solution for you from each of our partners:   Scality storage tools make data easy to protect, search and manage anytime, on any cloud. Scality gives customers the autonomy and agility necessary to be competitive in a data-driven economy. Together, Cisco and Scality have developed a software-defined storage solution. The solution, Scality RING on Cisco UCS allows users to store at scale by creating a single storage pool for any unstructured data. The Cisco and Scality joint solution can be used to reduce efforts in managing data, predict future investments and forecast expenditures, and increase business agility. To hear more about Scality and their and their work with Cisco, meet with a Scality Representative at   Cisco and SwiftStack have also partnered to deliver a hybrid cloud storage bundled solution that is validated for the Cisco UCS S-Series. The joint solution provides high capacity storage and end-to-end support to allow organizations to scale massively over time. Together, Cisco and SwiftStack have optimized object storage in order to organize unstructured data in a simple and efficient way.Learn more about the collaborative Cisco and SwiftStack object storage software solution, speak with a Storage Expert at     As one of Cisco strategic partners, IBM Cloud Object Storage offer customers a highly scalable cloud storage service, designed for high durability, resiliency and security. IBM Cloud object storage makes it easy to store, manage and access data. IBM Cloud Object Storage provides organizations the flexibility, scalability and simplicity required to store, manage and access today’s rapidly growing unstructured data in a cloud environment. By combining the massive scale that IBM Cloud Object Storage provides with the cost-effective simplicity of the Cisco UCS S3260 Storage server, this solution delivers an enterprise scale-out storage architecture that is simple, fast, and completely scalable. Now that everyone knows the ins and the outs on cloud object and software defined storage and what Cisco and our amazing Solution Partners have to offer, come learn more about the opportunities we have to offer at Cisco Live U.S. See you all in the Sunshine State! Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tIf you’re a Cisco Services partner, then I hope to see you at Cisco Live has evolved into a conference with programs designed to connect our growing community of ecosystem partners with our Cisco Services partners. Whether you have an existing services practice or are looking to build one, Cisco Services is committed to Here are a few sessions that I think you’ll find especially interesting if your customers are primarily small and medium-sized businesses. By attending these sessions, you will learn about the new capabilities in Business Critical Services around analytics, automation, compliance, and security that you can leverage to deliver better business outcomes for your customers. With over 1,000 technical and business With all this new information, you may have questions or suggestions on how Cisco innovations can help you grow your services business. I would love to listen and learn about your business strategy, and then talk about how we can work together to increase value for your customers. If you’d like to schedule a one-on-one meeting, just ask your Partner Account Manager or tweet at me directly See you in Orlando! Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tThere’s hardly a more scrutinized stage to demonstrate Cisco’s best-of-breed network technology than at The folks responsible for keeping the network running smoothly are the unsung heroes of this large-scale event — the Network Operations Center (NOC) team, who work tirelessly throughout the week to pull off an exceptional customer experience. This is their time to shine, ensuring uninterrupted wireless network connectivity and top-notch customer service. Since 2011, the NOC has relied on a group of stellar students hand-picked from To be selected, students must be nominated by their instructor, demonstrate both technical and professional aptitude, and have a passion for a career in IT. This year, over 60 Dream Team hopefuls submitted video applications for the chance to land a coveted spot. Ten finalists, along with a returning Team Captain and two instructors, make up Representing diverse backgrounds and experiences, these student ambassadors get the full Cisco Live experience. Here’s a glimpse into what they have planned for the week to come: This year, Cisco Gold Channel Partner, CDW, is the official sponsor of the NetAcad Dream Team, which is a true reflection of their commitment to investing in the development of talented engineers. They have been tapping into the Networking Academy for many years to grow their early-in-career talent pipeline. In fact, about 30% of all CDW’s Associate Consulting Engineers TheWe'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tHow do you build a better boardroom? I don’t mean I love the way my colleague Jonathan Rosenberg approaches this topic. In his post “Today, we’ve arrived in a new era of work. It’s an era we call Work Intuitive: The definition of a collaborative work environment. The boardroom is agile and adaptive, driven by data and collaboration. Technology fades into the background, supporting our work with real-time chat, live video conferencing, AI, and automation. And it’s an era in which the Winner of The In his The Webex Board will integrate with the SAP Digital Boardroom to make boardroom workflows more intuitive. Here are some of the features you can look forward to:   Stay tuned for the official integration of the SAP Digital Boardroom for Webex Board. And check our blog for updates on other Webex Board enhancements.   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join very well demonstration!! great going cisco!\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\tExcellent collaboration! Hope to see official integration announcement soon.\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\tMonday busy Monday. Cisco Live 2018 is officially underway. For some, the pre-conference meetings and certification testing started yesterday, but the main event kicked off this morning. Today included the opening keynote, the unveiling of the World of Solutions and DevNet Zone, and sessions, sessions, sessions. Cisco Chairman and CEO Chuck Robbins started his remarks with optimism: “We see the network as an exponential force for good.” Optimism threaded through his comments as he focused on how by we can do amazing things by combining technology and our collective efforts. Of course, for me, that screams “collaboration” loud and clear. More than 400 million more people connected to the internet in the last year. That creates opportunity, not just jobs, but education, healthcare, community, and more. Multiple guests joined Chuck on stage Google Cloud CEO Diane Green. It’s good to hear from the execs behind some of the major industry collaboration efforts. Likewise, guests from Children’s Hospital Los Angeles shared a great story about how Cisco technology is helping support the delivery of life-changing care. (See the case study video at the end of the post.) In his presentation, he covered five key areas that the latest, greatest advancements in collaboration technology address.   Watch Jonathan’s full presentation – and catch the post-session interview — above. With almost 1 million square feet of space to explore, there’s plenty to do. In addition to the normal booth chaos, it’s the home of the Social Media Hub, DevNet Zone, and some of the different theaters. The Cisco campus is set up differently this year. Instead of being organized by technology, it’s more oriented about how and where you use the technology. For example, you’ll find a lot of the collaboration gear in the “Employee and Customer Experience” areas as well as the “Branch” space. It puts our products in context with other technologies you’d implement with them. Kinda cool. David Goeckler, EVP and General Manager, Networking and Security Business,  will deliver the technology keynote at 10:30 a.m., ET. If you’re not live in Orlando, catch it online on the Make a difference while you’re here at #CLUS. Visit the Social Impact zone and spend an hour doing good for people in need. Want videos and other good stuff from the Cisco Live event team? Check out the Meanwhile, check out what’s happening at Children’s Hospital Los Angeles.   We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join Summer is just around the corner in the Northern Hemisphere, and with it comes vacation plans for many. Those looking to take some time away from work and home are likely making plans to secure their home, have their pets taken care of, and tie up loose ends at work. But how about securing your devices and your data while you’re away? Here are some things to take into consideration if you want to have a trip free of cyber worries. Some of the things on your cybersecurity checklist can be taken care of before you leave. They include the following: Travel plans can range from road trips to a nearby camping spot to flights to five-star beach resorts. Because of the wide range of travel options, some of the following advice may or may not apply: Some extra attention to detail may be required when you travel abroad. Back home safe and sound? Don’t rest yet. Check a few more things and then you can start posting online about your relaxing, fun, and incident-free vacation. While most of the things mentioned above are precautions we (should) take every day, they are not the first ones that come to mind when you are planning that awesome trip you have worked for all year. But as always, it’s better to be safe than sorry. Recommended reading: Safe travels!  \t\t\tWhat do a wild bunch of Cisconians with a passion for the written word, a wicked sense of humor, and a singular focus on customer experience all have in common? For starters, you get ten Cisco employees who are part of the Security Business Group Technical Publications team in Bangalore India. The Security Business Group Technical Publications team authors and publishes a wide variety of end-user documentation that helps our users setup and work with Cisco Firewall products and our Email and Web Security products.Our team is a diverse bunch – with tenures at Cisco ranging from six months to eight years – and we subscribe to the Cisco ideals of mutual respect, integrity, innovation, and courage. Our weekly meetings are usually effervescent, exciting interactions with ideas that keep bouncing off the walls of Andaman – our meeting room in the Bangalore office. We are encouraged to ideate and think boldly, even at the risk of failure. Because failure as we all know is just a stepping stone to success. We all understand that this is a core culture concept here at Cisco. In our meetings, routine work discussions apart, we leverage ideas from the newer members, and seasoned writers alike; we share best practices by going through trainings individually and collectively, and we are constantly looking at what the competition is doing and how to outrun them. We also take the time to discuss mindfulness, meditation, yoga, and exercise – and how they all can influence our productivity at work. Because we work together and play together – it follows, that we excel together. What have these three events helped us to accomplish? Our strategizing at the offsite has helped us to In addition to our assigned responsibilities, each of us is working on an innovation idea that will improve our customer experience. Several of our ideas have found executive level backing and we feel empowered by Cisco’s faith in us! Cisco’s value system emphasizes People, Relationships and Trust. We, in the Security Technical Publications Team have simply adopted this principle and are clearly excelling as a team by working together and playing together. Want to be part of the team? We’re hiring. We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tToday marks another milestone in the journey to Intent-based Networking. Today is good news for Managed Service Providers! First though, some data points regarding the current state of managed network services. There are And yet, There’s a market for you that is growing at Today, we announce a solution to these problems and help unlock a sizable market for managed service providers while simplifying operations.   For the details of our announcement, start with this The announcement today brings us much closer to aligning the network to business intent.  Out with CLI and scripts; in with real APIs.  Out with human middleware; in with real IT value.   Out with managing a collection of networking gear; in with managing a system that delivers high quality, secure services. DNA Center Platform affords you the ability to more easily operationalize the DNA Center and the Cisco SD-Access portfolio that it manages. The DNA Center Platform gives you access and control of automation, analytics, assurance and security policies across the managed branch or campus of your business customer. The end results are better experience by your customers, lower cost of operations, greater profitability. To easily create, deliver, and manage new services, we offer the Cisco MSX is an open service creation platform that helps you easily create and deliver managed network, security, and business services to enterprises. Using MSX, you can create your own services or leverage Cisco pre-built service packs, such as Cisco SD-WAN and SD-Branch. MSX is a highly extensible API-driven platform, enabling an unlimited range of personalized, differentiated services based on virtual or physical network functions from Cisco and third-parties. Cisco Enterprise networking and security offers such as SD-WAN, SD-Branch, ISR/ENCS routers, SD-Access, Intent-Based Networking can all be delivered as managed services. The MSX platform integrates into your operational systems (OSS/BSS) so you can rapidly deploy our Enterprise networking and security offers. With MSX, you need only integrate one platform, MSX, into your systems to MSX works with leading domain managers such as Cisco vManage (for SD-WAN) or Cisco DNA Center (for SD-Access, Managed LAN/WiFi) to deliver multiple services while unifying them for common assurance, metrics and service management. MSX has SD-WAN in full customer production and currently being developed is full integration with DNA-Center.  A pre-built MSX Service Pack which will support attachment of multiple DNA Centers serving as domain controllers will come to market later this year. Whether residing on your premises or used as a service from Cisco, MSX becomes your platform for multiple differentiated services. The Intent APIs let you simply launch new services, collect status, monitor assurance, modify services and more just through the MSX portal.  And you can still zoom into the domain of one of several DNA Centers that are attached. Indeed, you can, if you are at Cisco Live US June 11We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tDoes your vendor care about deploying security patches or firmware updates? Do they understand the constrains of an Internet of Things (IoT) architecture? Do they communicate important actions you need to take and are committed to conducting business at the highest standards? If you have not asked your technology vendor(s) these questions…you should. Take a look at Cisco’s We believe that trust is key to any successful relationship. Customers and partners trust our solutions, our advice and our support. Overall, they trust us to do the right thing. We do not take that for granted. At Cisco, every employee plays a role in building and maintaining trust. We do this by, accurately advising our customers and partners, conducting business with All of the above factors are especially important as our customers and partners tackle challenges created by trends like digital transformation and IoT. For example, all IoT devices predictions point to 20 billion plus devices by the year 2020. More devices mean a greater attack surface. The majority of these devices will lack the security capabilities to mitigate threats. We value the trust that our customers put in our products and brand. We know that in order to retain your trust, we must not let you down. To that end, we focus every day and everything we do on our We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tMicrosoft has released its monthly set of security advisories for vulnerabilities that have been identified and addressed in various products. This month’s advisory release addresses 50 flaws, with 11 of them rated “critical,” and 39 rated “important.” These vulnerabilities impact Microsoft Edge, Internet Explorer, Chakra Scripting Engine, Windows DNSAPI, Microsoft Office, Windows Kernel and more. In addition to the 50 vulnerabilities referenced above, Microsoft has also released a critical update advisory, ADV180014, the June 2018 Adobe Flash Security Update, which addresses the vulnerabilities described in the security bulletin. We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tToday data center customers are rolling out newer trends and technologies at a rapid pace. SaaS, DevOps, and migration to Cloud are disruptions that mandate a robust networking technology to deliver on the promise of innovation. To manage this complex environment, customers are seeking an enterprise approach to DNS, DHCP and IPAM (DDI) for centralized visibility and control over networks that span geographical boundaries. With an enterprise DDI strategy, network teams can deliver flexible infrastructure to developers, reducing operating costs and security risks. In this blog, we will review highlights of the BlueCat Cisco Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) joint solution  that we announced this week at Cisco Live Orlando and how it empowers network teams implement and enterprise DDI strategy. As a precursor to the solution, let us review key value-props of ACI and BlueCat offerings. (ACI) is an innovative policy-based architecture that radically simplifies, optimizes, and accelerates the entire application deployment lifecycle. With tight integration between physical and virtual elements, an open ecosystem model, ASIC’s, hardware, and software,  ACI’s common policy-based operating model delivers true application agility while drastically reducing complexity. BlueCat DNS Integrity represents a design philosophy centered on best practices network architectures that are centralized and automated, delivering core DNS, DHCP and IPAM services rapidly and without compromise. Cisco ACI and BlueCat DNS Integrity products are built on the same fundamental principles: automation, policy-driven, agile and scalability and hence it made a compelling case   to build a solution for our joint customers- BlueCat integrated with Cisco ACI to deliver customers an enterprise DDI strategy. The solution broadly covers two major customer use-cases: Centralized visibility (available now) and IP enabled device management and operational care-about (roadmap). The solution leverages Cisco ACI’s and BlueCat’s open API to provide our customers with centralized visibility by feeding endpoints information from ACI into BlueCat Address Manager with the ability to map and annotate in BlueCat DNS Integrity, and the entire subnet tree to the granularity of Tenant/App Profile/BD/Subnet Hierarchy. Further to strengthen the integration, we are currently exploring use cases to add additional context of DNS resources directly in the ACI’s UI delivering deep insights  operational flexibility to ACI admins. The joint solution featuring visibility use case will be showcased at BlueCat demo booth #1919, in the world of solutions, during June 11-14, at Cisco Live Orlando. Embedded here is a Video that captures the integration. We want to share exciting, forward-looking news with our joint customers. The ACI-BlueCat integration code snippets will be available on Github later this year coinciding with the solution GA. Related Links We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tHow do you know if you’re getting the most out of CLUS? A simple indicator: If your feet don’t hurt and your step-counting device of choice isn’t smoking, you’re not trying hard enough. And Tuesday in Orlando has drawn to a close. It was another busy day in the wonderful world of networking technology at what some call “summer camp for nerds.” Executive Vice President David Goeckler kicked off the technology keynote with a focus on intent-based networking. He described it as “powered by intent, informed by context.” The concept sounds great for networks – and it’s probably good guidance for life in general if you think about it in a broader context. As much as focus as there is on cloud, I like how he brought things back down to earth (so to speak): One of the elements people like most about the technology keynote is the demos. And there was plenty to share. Admittedly, I’m a bit of a cheerleader for collaboration, but the other stuff is good too. Check out the demos at the following links: Cisco DevNet is the resource community that supports the software developers who build integrations with Cisco products. Or the aspiring developers. It’s where you’ll find all sorts of resources about building integrations for Webex and our collaboration products. And there’s more to it than that. This year there’s plenty to celebrate as DevNet just reached 500,000 registered members. Jonathan closed out the demos with some great examples of the latest innovations with meetings. The bottom line: Cisco wants to make meetings simple and enjoyable. It’s all about the experience. If your online meeting technology makes it frustrating or difficult to actually join a meeting, how can you focus on the topic, the conversations, and the other attendees? With consistent interfaces and controls, the big join green button, and choices of video views, we’re focusing on the experience. When the technology experience is great, you can focus on the reason for the meeting itself. Sounds a lot more productive, doesn’t it? One of today’s speakers was Grant Korgan, a seemingly fearless adventurer, nanoscientist, and pro athlete. He experienced a major spinal cord injury and is working toward, as he puts it, 120% recovery. In the meantime, he’s sled-skiied to the South Pole and broken a world record kayaking around Lake Tahoe. He’s probably one of the most positive people I’ve heard speak.     The Until tomorrow! #FOMO: If you missed yesterday’s post, fear not, you can go back in time to Can’t wait for tomorrow’s post? Follow me live on Twitter as We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tJust in time for summer, Cisco offers new configurations for Cisco’s Azure stack solution. These newest configurations include hybrid storage (flash and SAS storage) which provide storage options from 32-96TB/server in clusters ranging from 4 to 12 nodes in increments of one. Just imagine how many Azure workloads you can deploy with this scale.  The M5 provides enhanced system capacities over the previous M4 based systems: The hybrid configurations expand Cisco Integrated System for Microsoft Azure Stack that also includes Customers who store data that must meet regulatory requirements such as GDPR, have compliance policies that prohibit cloud use, or simply have cloud connectivity issues should look to the Cisco Azure Stack system for resolution. And just to remind you why our system has the most competitive offer for your Azure Stack projects- Cisco is the only Azure Stack solution provider that offers: Microsoft Azure Stack on Cisco UCS delivers accelerated growth and innovation, provides simplified management and control, and earned confidence and trust supported by an industry-leading partnership. Learn why customers continue to standardize on Cisco by visiting #azure #Hybridcloud #ciscoUCS #azurestack #ciscodatacenter \t\t \t\t\tWe'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tYou might be familiar with public blockchains — the underlying technology powering cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin — but not yet sure how private, enterprise blockchain could work for your company. You’re in good company: Blockchain is a whole new world, and innovators are just starting to identify the wide-reaching applications and possibilities for businesses. At its core, blockchain is a ledger of transactions that is decentralized, secure and immutable. With the introduction of decentralized applications and smart contracts, the possibilities for blockchain have expanded far beyond cryptocurrencies. Blockchain technology can enable any ecosystem of participants — enterprises, machines or individuals — to securely exchange and distribute goods, services, data and currency with assurances of transparency, accuracy, and security. These assurances enable myriad uses cases in supply chain digitization, smart cities and intelligent infrastructure, and manufacturing 3.0. Cisco Blockchain Platform  Today, however, many enterprise blockchains are running in the cloud and often in a single datacenter. This goes against the philosophy that blockchains should be fully decentralized and opens up security risks associated with managing data in a single location. Cisco believes the next generation of enterprise blockchain systems should be fully decentralized and offer hybrid deployment models, where blockchain nodes can be on-premise behind firewall systems or use In addition, business leaders need to think holistically about end-to-end security. A common misconception is that the distributed nature of blockchains makes them inherently secure, and in many ways, they are. However, without the correct design measures, they can be prone to multiple threats, for example through the exploitation of infrastructure-level vulnerabilities. Our approach involves end-to-end security architecture, leveraging analytics that spans the infrastructure layer through to the application layer. Finally, when evaluating any new enterprise blockchain technology, it is important to consider the ease of adoption. This includes the ease of deploying and managing the network, developing applications with best-in-class tools, and integrating with existing enterprise systems. Our blockchain framework includes interfaces that expose the necessary functionality to perform these objectives, simplifying the process of connecting to existing systems, such as ERP and supply chain management systems. Cisco is building a comprehensive foundation for enterprise blockchain technology that brings together our strengths in network automation, distributed systems architecture as well as capabilities around security, identity, and cryptography. If you’d like to learn more visit us at:   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tTalos is disclosing a remote code execution vulnerability in the Microsoft wimgapi library. The wimgapi DLL is used in the Microsoft Windows operating system to perform operations on Windows Imaging Format (WIM) files. WIM is a file-based disk image format created by Microsoft to simplify the deployment of Windows systems. If an attacker creates a specially crafted WIM file, they could be able to execute malicious code with the same access rights as the logged-in user, or just crash the system with a denial-of-service attack. The vulnerability is related to the file header parsing, which means it gets triggered even on simple operations. WIM files do not have a registered file type handler by default, which means that this vulnerability cannot be triggered by tricking a user into double-clicking a WIM file — at least not without registering a file-handler first. We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tAs we head into the summer of 2018 and as the heat starts to roll in, the world’s mobile operators find their networks in a similar position – HOT! With all of the new mobile  IoT devices soon receiving gigabit access anywhere where 5G and LTE-A are available, the consumer and business person will soon experience a full-scale ability to unshackle from their physical office and become road warriors.                 With the recent announcements of “merger mania” in the video and mobile market, we expect the mobile video growth to continue to skyrocket, putting additional strain on the mobile infrastructure. As the old saying goes, “if you can’t beat them, join them.” Well, many service providers are doing just that to compete against the video Over-The-Top (OTT) providers, with reactions such as ATT’s acquisition of DirecTV, Verizon’s completion of its purchase of AOL  Yahoo, Vodafone’s acquisition of ONO, as well as many other service providers looking to acquire additional video assets. According to According to Statista.comin 2011, there were almost 1.2 billion mobile broadband subscriptions worldwide. The number of The mobile service provider will not differentiate themselves by the 5G radio or first mover advantage alone, as every mobile operator on the planet has either some sort of 5G proof-of-concept in place or a vision to get there at some point. The mobile Service provider will need to differentiate themselves by delivering new cloud services and enhanced connected experiences to consumers and businesses. The mobile service provider will need a multi-cloud-to-client, multi-vendor network that is highly automated, able to partition network resources through network slicing, and able to quickly deliver services where and when they are needed. These operators will need to provide visibility and security for their business customers and for themselves. Cisco’s Ultra Packet Core (UPC) is the industry-leading, cloud-native converged mobile core. As evidenced by recent quarterly announcements by ACG Research, and by IHS Markit (formally Infonetics Research), Cisco is and has been the true leader in the Evolved Packet Core (EPC) market for several consecutive quarters.                 The Cisco Ultra Packet Core is leveraged today by more than 80 mobile operators across the globe and growing rapidly, with more than 40 of those operators in commercial operation with the cloud-based platform. Today, our UPC is carrying more than 300 million users and continuing to flourish, soon the platform will have more than 600 million users traversing in the next few months. Our bespoke ASR5500 platform is still growing at a healthy growth rate as well where we are deployed in more than 350 mobile operator networks, carrying well over 1 billion users today on that platform. So as the operators decide the time is right to transition to cloud based solution it is a simple transition for the operator as the features are the same. For the full ACG Research report, please go to For more information see our For more information on IHS Markit please go to For more details on Machina Research: Meanwhile, we’d love to hear from you on what you’re looking forward to in the mobile market. Tweet us We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tAs companies strive to become digital enterprises, they need to make the best use of their existing assets and infrastructure, while introducing new technology and tools that drive the business forward. ITSM is one of the key digital accelerators that deliver improved performance, higher availability, and reduced risk, all while optimizing IT costs. Modern IT operations have to function in a continuous dev-ops model, manage numerous tools, and make sense of all the noise in an environment that lack any decipherable data and analytics to deliver modern applications that have a complex web of interdependencies across a distributed environment. At Cisco, we observed the growing customer interest in ITSM/ITOM space since the announcement of ACI and quickly forged relationships with leading ITSM vendors like ServiceNow, Cherwell and brought to market joint solutions to automate and streamline incident management, health monitoring use-cases while simultaneously building a growing pipeline of customer deployments. Today, we are proud to add BMC Remedy solution for Cisco ACI to this significant ITSM technology partner ecosystem portfolio. This blog captures the essence of the solution and how it enables intuitive service management for the digital enterprise, on-premises or in the cloud. BMC Remedy ITSM suite provides out of box ITIL service support functionality, from architecture to integration and implementation to support. BMC Remedy ITSM has fast established itself as one of the market leaders addressing IT transparency, flexible and agile services, and effective collaboration and reporting, aided by a single, central shared data model. Cisco ACI, an SDN based networking architecture, enhances business agility, reduces TCO, automates IT tasks, and accelerates data center application deployments. Organizations are increasingly looking to cut costs and find ways to optimize their IT investments. Tight integration of the ITSM layers with underlying IT infrastructure helps organizations to not only optimize their IT infrastructure but also helps them to streamline day to day IT operations. BMC Remedy ITSM solution for Cisco ACI is a fully-automated policy-based enterprise service management solution that provides single console visibility into your data center and delivers business-aware IT operations. Cisco ACI’s open API seamlessly integrates with BMC Remedy’s REST API and forms the foundation for the integration. The key solution component is the BMC ITSM App for Cisco ACI.  The APIC facing interface of the App pulls necessary information from the APIC object database and passes it to BMC instance. Major use cases covered as part of the ACI-BMC Remedy joint solution include CMDB enrichment, health and fault monitoring, and proactive incident management. With these ACI-BMC ITSM solution use cases, customers get unprecedented automation, visibility, and efficiency in their IT service management. As customer adoption of ACI-BMC Remedy ITSM suite becomes widespread, we will continue to explore newer use-cases to address IT operational pain-points. If you happen to be at Cisco Live Orlando (June 11 -14), please swing by Datacenter world of solution demo pods to get a close view of how Cisco ACI works with our ecosystem partners and ITSM in particular. We have a great line up of technical experts at the show to describe Cisco ACI- BMC Remedy ITSM integrations and also hands-on demo session showcasing how these integrations work in real life use cases. We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tWhen a nascent technology starts to take off, people talk about the inventors as “pioneers,” evoking pictures of rough-and-tumble loners going it alone. But when it comes to developing a distributed ledger technology like blockchain, it’s much better to join forces than fend for yourself. As the enterprise blockchain ecosystem grows, more and more businesses explore the possibilities of blockchain in their industries.  At Cisco, we believe in strength in partnerships. Whether a company is developing next generation of supply chain management or explores new and innovative way to tackle growing counterfeit issues, there’s great opportunity in collaboration. (That’s just one reason why we are co-founding members of We’re a strong believer in building partnerships to make the most of the blockchain revolution.  So much progress is being made across the ecosystem by individual firms that it makes sense to enlist specialists and work with an array of providers rather than try to find one company that promises to do it all. We are taking a modular approach to innovation, one that will be more future-proof for our customers and partners and fully harness the possibility of this radical new technology. As companies explore enterprise blockchain solutions, they will need experienced partners in each of these categories: Of course, there are other categories of partners, including startups, ISVs and horizontal blockchain technology developers as ecosystem is innovating and growing with an incredible speed! As such, at this early stage of the industry development, it is crucial to take strategic approach that allows an organization to keep harvesting results of this ongoing technology revolution, avoiding the risk of being trapped with monolithic designs and all-in-one offerings. For more information, contact us at:  See more on Cisco Blockchain at: We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tTalos is disclosing two denial-of-ervice vulnerabilities in Pixar’s Renderman application. Renderman is a rendering application used in animation and film production. It is widely used for advanced rendering and shading in many large-scale environments. Both vulnerabilities are due to the lack of proper validation during the parsing process of network packets. Pixar remedied these vulnerabilities in RenderMan version 21.7 We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tYes, the wrap-up of Wednesday’s Cisco Live happenings is a little behind schedule. With most of my scheduled sessions complete, I spent more of Wednesday in the World of Solutions to check out the Cisco demonstrations and see what other exhibitors brought to share. It’s a busy environment. In the new setup of the Cisco space, the Collaboration technology is integrated with other products based on the use case. It did make it a bit tricky to find things at first, but then you’d be getting a demo surrounded by the other technologies that support what you’re trying to do. When I did find time to take breaks and actually sit down (usually near a power source), I was always surrounded by conversations peppered with acronyms and product names. This is definitely the place to talk shop. Right now, I’m sitting near conversations in at least three languages. It’s beyond cool. One cool element of my job is working with the Members are under non-disclosure, so we provide them with benefits throughout the year, including pre-launch briefings, feedback sessions with product teams, and more. Cisco Live is one of the few opportunities I have to meet people in person – and it’s definitely one of the big benefits of attending the conference. We held two panels this week in the World of Solutions. I hosted a discussion about technical specialization vs. generalization. The Champions who joined me talked about how they’ve managed their careers, when and why they’ve pursued certifications, and any advice they’d provide to others. My colleague Lauren Albert hosted a panel specifically about how the program has helped members build their technical careers as well as their personal industry credibility. Our onsite events also include some behind-the-scenes tours. Tuesday morning included a behind-the-scenes tour of World of Solutions, the keynote stage, and other nerdy stuff. Admittedly, I wasn’t expecting to be wowed by the keynote details. But once our hosts started digging into the technical details – the real guts behind the magic screens – it was pretty fascinating. There’s a lot happening “behind the curtain” to make sure things go smoothly. Another stop on the tour was a visit with the Yesterday was a busy day topped by a chaotic evening at the Customer Appreciation Event at Universal Studios. As a firm believer in work-life balance, it’s honestly good to see 20,000+ people go from sessions, labs, testing, and booth wandering to a ridiculously big party. We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join Post Most commonly, users think that social media sites limit their tracking to actual interactions with the site while logged in. This includes likes, follows, favorites, and general use of the site as intended. Those interactions are then analyzed to determine a user’s rough interests, and serve them corresponding ads. We asked some non-technical Malwarebytes staffers what they thought popular companies collected on them and got the following responses: “Hmm I would assume just my name, birthday, trends in the hashtags I use, and locations I’m at. Nothing else.” “As far as IG goes, I’m guessing they collect data on the hashtags I follow and what I look at because all the ads are home improvement ads.” While these are common use cases for tracking, innovations in user surveillance have allowed companies to take much more invasive actions. The Most recently, a Facebook has been known for years to have somewhat creepy partnerships like this. But what about other platforms? Instagram has an interesting paragraph in its terms and conditions: Does communications include direct messages? How long is this information stored, where, and under what conditions? It could be perfectly secure and anonymized, but it’s difficult to tell because Instagram is a little vague on these points. Companies tell us what they collect consistently but they don’t always tell us why or disclose retention conditions, which makes it difficult for a user to make a proper risk assessment for allowing tracking. Outside of the Facebook family of products, Pinterest does some data sharing that you might not expect: Kudos to Pinterest for providing clear opt-out instructions.  A reasonable user might not expect that when consent to tracking connected with a Pinterest account, they would also agree to offsite tracking. Pinterest does stand out, however, by presenting well organized and clear information followed by simple opt-out instructions after each section. Most platforms that engage in user tracking do so in ways that raise concern, but are not overtly alarming. Abuses we’ve heard about tend to center on the tracking company sharing information with third parties. So what might happen if the wrong third party gains access to this data? In 2016, a A more speculative harm is the use of tracking tags on sensitive websites. In France, a government website providing accurate information on reproductive health services using a Facebook tracker. A “trusted partner” receiving user metadata, as well as which sections of the site that user clicks on, has the potential to be profoundly invasive. From a risk mitigation perspective, a user with a Facebook account might not have anticipated this sort of tracking when they initially consented to Facebook’s terms of service. A common counter to complaints regarding user tracking is, “Well, you agreed to their terms, so you should have expected this.” This is arguably applicable to basic metadata collection and targeted ads, but is it reasonable to expect a Facebook user to understand that their off-platform browsing is subject to surveillance as well? User tracking has progressed so far in sophistication that an average user most likely does not have the background necessary to imagine every possible use case for data collection prior to accepting a user agreement. If any of the above examples make you a little uncomfortable, check out Messenger services are a bit harder to transition away from, but not impossible. Most important is to stay suspicious when accessing a new platform. No one can mishandle data that you never agree to hand over to begin with. Stay vigilant, stay safe, and enjoy your social media platforms knowing exactly how your data is being used.  \t\t\tWebex has come a long way. We recently unpacked a lot of great innovation in the new meetings experience. The great thing about Webex Meetings is that it’s a full video and content-sharing cloud solution that you can join via desktop, mobile, browser, and video devices. We’ve integrated the latest artificial intelligence (AI) and machine-learning technologies into the meetings experience to keep participants engaged. Webex Meetings can automatically detect background noise to remove distractions. The video delivers optimal views of people and content. Core functionality like start/join a meeting, attendee rosters, and more are at your fingertips no matter how you join. I appreciate being able to join a scheduled meeting simply by pressing the big green button on my desktop, mobile device, or Cisco video device. Cisco is the only vendor to offer a single, consistent one-button join across devices and apps. We’ve simplified things. You don’t have to figure out how to join — the green join button comes to you. Webex has the most comprehensive, browser-based meeting experience on the market today. If you are invited to a Webex meeting, all you need to do is click the big green button in the invitation and it takes you right in. This is especially important for first-time users. There’s nothing to install, plug in, or download to join from Chrome, Internet Explorer, Firefox, or Safari browsers. And joining from a browser doesn’t mean you have to compromise on features. Hosts and participants get the rich video and application screen-sharing of the desktop version. You have full control and can see everyone participating. We’ve also made sure that Webex works with your preferred collaboration tools. Webex not only works across our own hardware and software but also with third-party solutions. You can join or a start a meeting from Webex or do it from  Slack, Microsoft Teams, and Workplace by Facebook. It also works with calendars like Google Calendar. Support for Microsoft Office 365 is right around the corner. These integrations mean you do less switching between apps and have a more efficient workflow. You get the trusted, seamless, and reliable Webex features in the environment that you choose. Several enhancements make it easier be more productive and engaged – even on the road. For a long time, it was hard to see the other people in a meeting if you joined from a mobile device. Likewise, functionality like content sharing and scheduling weren’t options. We’ve turned the experience around and used the latest technologies to make significant improvements that help mobile users get an equal seat at the meeting table. We’ve optimized the interface for better viewing. Pinch-and-zoom technology makes it easier to see who’s in the meeting and what they’re sharing. You’ll get native screen sharing and the easiest scheduling on the market. If you are an Apple user, you can now use voice commands, Touch ID, and Face ID. All Webex products use the Cisco network backbone, regardless of how attendees join. It’s a trusted, worldwide IP network built over the last 10 years with interconnects around the world. No other company can do this. Webex connects with both Several options for using Webex let you mix and match between services as your business evolves. In addition to a free trial, there are several Webex Meetings subscription models for individuals, teams, departments, and, of course, companies. The offers are competitively priced and flexible so that you can choose a buying model based on your current requirements. Market-leading, secure, innovative Webex Meetings, plus team collaboration, unlimited VoIP, global PSTN audio services, technical support, customer success, and even analytics are all included so you always get the best features and services Webex has to offer. We can’t wait hear what you think about the new Webex – please share your comments below. Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tA Chicago area school district knew their technology wasn’t making good grades. Their data center and Wi-Fi systems were too old to keep up with new teaching styles. Students were working on laptops that often couldn’t connect, and even when they did, Wi-Fi was slow and always at risk of cutting out. Sometimes teachers would have to scrap lesson plans that needed computers until IT was able to fix them – the solutions were usually just a band aid for their bandwidth issues. This lack of connection wasn’t working for a school district that prides itself on using technology to enrich student’s education, so they turned to us. We’re Mindsight, a Chicago-area IT consultant and a Cisco Gold partner. We got our start selling IT hardware, but we found our clients needed our expertise beyond just servers and switches. Now, we provide IT services and solutions that help clients get to where they need to be. Defining that roadmap is the first thing we did with the school district. We learned  they were building a new administrative building, so our first recommendation was to add a new data center. We also recommended they use SmartStack, running on Cisco’s reliable With our help, the school district has seen their floor-to-ceiling data center shrink to a mere half stack. And they’ve replaced a nest of tangled wires with just 12 cables. This isn’t simply an organizational feat—it means no more dropped connections and much lower costs. And our disaster recovery solution gives the district peace of mind and the ability to manage the solution without any special skills. With better connections and a simplified data center, students get the technology they need to learn. And the Chicago area school district can be proud of the up-to-date education they provide. The story doesn’t stop there… Connect with Mindsight using our We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tCisco Live just wrapped Manufacturing’s goal is always to continuously approve with an aim towards reaching an “ultimate state.” These goals include: The path to achieving these goals has changed over time from the industrial revolution where new machinery helped drive productivity ultimately leading to mass production of products and the integration of automation and computers to drive efficiency, visibility and optimize process and resources as a means of competitive advantage for companies. Manufacturing has now entered what many describe as Manufacturers will succeed when they’re connected, agile, and secure.  Technology is leading the way for the industry, and over the past year, we have discussed many areas and applications that are helping drive these capabilities within smart manufacturing. We’ve explored these topics through a series of white papers focused on: To help manufacturers build a strong foundation to Industry 4.0 we are happy to deliver the Ultimate Guide to Smart Manufacturing, which explores upon all the topics mentioned above in a new combined E-book. The guide will help companies understand what are the right technology investments to achieve their goals and drive transformation without being disrupted by current risks to their business. Some examples of topics explored in the guide include: The guide is a helpful for both those just starting their smart manufacturing journey and for those who already have a head start in Industry 4.0. I invite you to download it   For more on digital manufacturing, explore our Source:  We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 