---
layout: post
title: Canada tackles malicious online advertising
date: 2018-07-20 11:02:12
tourl: https://www.welivesecurity.com/2018/07/20/canada-tackles-malicious-online-advertising/
tags: [exploit]
---
Federal agency issues Notices of Violation to Datablocks and Sunlight Media for allegedly facilitating the installation of malware through online advertisingtttttttttttttttOn July 11, 2018, the He explains that these two companies act as intermediaries for online advertising. “They connect advertisers, either people or companies paying to display ads with publishers, i.e. websites that are enriched with the display of advertising to their visitors”.Datablocks offers a real-time auction service (RTB). Sunlight Media operates an ad network and serves as a broker between advertisers and publishers (or their respective representatives), using Datablocks’ RTB system.Matthieu Faou explains: “When a visitor arrives on a publisher’s website, the advertising space on that website for that particular visitor is auctioned on RTB’s platform. Advertisers automatically participate in this auction and the highest bidder pays. Then, its advertising is displayed in real time to the visitor.”Datablocks and Sunlight Media businesses are vertically integrated. The two companies have close ties through ownership, directors and officers, as well as through their physical location. Sunlight Media is a major user of Datablocks services and benefits from significantly discounted rates for the use of these services.These types of services are very common in the industry. They can potentially attract malicious advertisers, who may try to push platforms to accept advertising that contains code designed to spread malware. In most cases, the platform and their leaders are not held responsible for such malicious actions by customers abusing their services. However, they are required to protect their network and ban responsible actors as soon as they became aware of any malicious behavior.In this case, however, the CRTC found that Datablocks and Sunlight Media have in fact facilitated such abuses by allowing advertisers to use their service anonymously, for example.In a press release to Among other things found, these two companies were not verifying their new customers and allowed payment by cryptocurrency. While both companies have been warned of these weaknesses in their practice in a Specifically, the malicious advertisers used the platform to automatically redirect users of a legitimate publisher’s website to an exploit-kit, such as Magnitude or Angler, to install malware on the user’s computer without requiring any action or consent on their part.When installed, this malicious software included click-fraud trojans, abusing the advertising ecosystem in the publisher side. These trojans aim to force victims’ devices to automatically click on ads on attackers’ websites in order to generate advertising revenue.The redirection chain from a legitimate publisher’s website can be very long. This is because advertising agencies resell traffic in real time to other advertising agencies. Thus, many different advertising companies can be involved in a single malicious redirection.While this CRTC fine is a first of its kind in Canada, this type of threat is nothing new in the industry. One of the most notorious trojans of this type is Boaxxe. If you want to know more about Boaxxe, a 