---
layout: post
title: Former Pirate Bay Cyberlocker ‘BayFiles’ Is Back!
date: 2018-07-22 12:02:10
tourl: https://www.techworm.net/2018/07/former-pirate-bay-cyberlocker-bayfiles-back.html
tags: [Group]
---
Do you remember ‘BayFiles’, the file-hosting service, that was launched in 2011 by two co-founders, Fredrik Neij and Peter Sunde of The Pirate Bay? However, the website suddenly disappeared in November 2014 after the raid on a Stockholm datacenter.But there is some good news for BayFiles fans. The BayFiles website that was dead in 2014 has been brought back to life this week by an anonymous group of ‘privacy-oriented’ people who toyed with the idea of relaunching it. While the new operators have acquired the site’s domains and logotype from TPB co-founder Fredrik Neij, aka TiAMO, the website will start from scratch since all the old data and its potential users have gone.For those unaware, BayFiles is a website and file hosting service that lets users upload files to its servers and share them online. Users are provided with a link to access their files, which can be shared with anyone on the internet so that they can download the files associated with the particular link. One of the critical features of the BayFiles hosting service is that it disallows the uploads of any content that violates third-party copyright laws. BayFiles had within a short span of time after its launch in 2011 managed to accumulate a steady user base.With BayFiles back in action now, the new team is hoping to fill the gap that it has noticed in simple “one-click” file hosts in recent years, reports Although BayFiles is free to use and can be accessed by people without requiring them to sign up for it, there are a few restrictions though in the form of a lenient retention policy, no download throttling, and an upload limit of 10GB per file. The accounts come with 1TB of storage capacity.Those who create an account can use it to keep track of their files. While the account is free to use for the first 30 days, but after that depending on the length of the subscription, the user will be charged between 3.5 and 5 euro per month. The BayFiles team will be handling payments only in cryptocurrencies.“Registering an account is, of course, optional and only for you to keep track of your own files, and there are no download caps or speed limits for anonymous users,” the new BayFiles team told TorrentFreak.“Ads tend to be annoying and that doesn’t rhyme with our principles of having a clean site, so we will try our best to keep the service afloat through the subscription model.”The aim is to make sharing as fast and easy as possible, with the help of built-in video and audio players.“Most browsers are capable of playing MP4, MP3, etc so we thought ‘why not’. If your browser supports it, it will play,” the BayFiles team says.The new BayFiles team is looking to retain the old feel of the website barring a few small changes.“The fast download speeds combined with the ‘Bay attitude’ Bayfiles got from the founders of TPB. I guess we share the same stance and attitude since we are from the same era when TPB got started.“The site will continue with the values it had prior to the raid in 2014, and we’ll add features and improve the service as we collect feedback from our users,” the BayFiles team notes.Pirate Bay co-founder Fredrik Neij, who is no longer a part of BayFiles, is happy to see the domain names being put to good use after a three-year ‘break.’“The domain names were just gathering dust in my domain collection. Now people can at least use it for sharing,” Neij told TorrentFreak.Source: 