title:Malware Found in the Firmware of 141 Low-Cost Android Devices
date:2018-05-25 05:00:28
tourl:https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/malware-found-in-the-firmware-of-141-low-cost-android-devices/
tags:[attack,GDPR,regulations,China,law]
Hackers have come up with a never-before-seen method of installing backdoored plugins on websites running the open-source WordPress CMS, and this new technique relies on using weakly protected WordPress.com accounts and the Jetpack plugin. The technique is highly complex, and to compromise a site, a hacker must go through different steps, during which multiple things can prevent the attack from being successful. Nevertheless, attacks have been happening since May 16, according to The first step of this attack consists of hackers taking usernames and passwords from public breaches and attempting to log into WordPress.com accounts. Users who reused passwords across accounts and who did not enable two-factor authentication for their profiles are susceptible to these account take-over attempts. To be clear, WordPress.com accounts are used to manage professional blogs hosted by Automattic, and are different from both WordPress.org accounts and admin accounts for self-hosted WordPress sites that based on the open-source CMS. While the WordPress open-source CMS is managed by the WordPress community, lots of Automattic developers contribute to the open-source project and have always had a big influence and close ties to the open-source CMS. This is why, a few years back, Automattic took the analytics plugin used on WordPress.com and released it as an open-source plugin for self-hosted WordPress sites. In time, this analytics module —named One of the plugin's features is the ability to connect self-hosted WordPress sites to a WordPress.com account and use the Jetpack panel inside the WordPress.com dashboard to manage tens or thousands of self-hosted WordPress sites via the Jetpack plugin installed on each site. One of the options Jetpack provides is the ability to install plugins across different sites from the WordPress.com Jetpack dashboard. The plugin doesn't even have to be hosted or hidden on the official WordPress.org repository, and attackers can easily upload a ZIP file with the malicious code that then gets sent to each site. According to Wordfence, hackers who've been taking over WordPress.com accounts and finding linked WordPress self-hosted sites have been abusing this remote management feature to deploy backdoored plugins across previously secured sites. Experts say that attacks started on May 16, with the hackers deploying a plugin named \"pluginsamonsters,\" later switching to another plugin named \"wpsmilepack\" on May 21. The number of compromised sites is unknown, and detecting compromised sites is also difficult. \"The plugin is visible on the WordPress.com dashboard but is invisible on the target WordPress site's plugin list when active,\" the Wordfence team said. For now, hackers have been using these backdoors to redirect users to spam and tech support scams. Owners of self-hosted sites that have connected their Jetpack plugin with a WordPress.com account are encouraged to review the plugins they have deployed across self-hosted sites inside the WordPress.com dashboard. If they find suspicious plugins, they should immediately change their WordPress.com account password, enable two-factor authentication for the account, and initiate site-cleaning procedures. Wordfence said that the threat actor behind this new site hijacking technique has targeted self-hosted WordPress sites before. In February of this year, they used a technique called \"credential stuffing\" —using leaked username  password combos— in attempts to guess the credentials of admin accounts and hijacked WordPress self-hosted sites directly at the source. A hacker found a way around a previous patch in the Verge cryptocurrency source code and took advantage of the flaw to monopolize mining operations and create Verge coins (XVG) at a rapid pace. The attack took place on Tuesday, May 22 [Users who looked into the attack's aftermath believe the hacker mined over 35 million XVG coins in just a few hours for a profit of $1.65 million. The incident is eerily similar to another attack that took place Following the April attack, the Verge development team hard-forked the entire cryptocurrency's source code to patch the flaw exploited by the attacker and reverse his gains. But according to several users knowledgeable of the Verge source code, the attacker found a way around the hard-fork's patch and launched a similar attack. \"Since nothing really was done about the previous attacks (only a band-aid), the attackers now simply use two algos to fork the chain for their own use and are gaining millions,\" The Verge dev team didn't appear to recognize the attack, in the beginning, calling it a DDoS on mining pools. it appears some mining pools are under ddos attack, and we are experiencing a delay in our blocks, we are working to resolve this. — vergecurrency (@vergecurrency) Nonetheless, once it became clear what was going on, developers started working on a patch once more. It is unclear if the Verge team plans to hard-fork the cryptocurrency's source code to reverse the effects of the illegal mining like it did in April. Small update about the 51% attack today. Developer is working on a patch. But something more awsome to look forward to is we will have a complete new codebase soon!!Just like in April, no XVG coins were stolen from users' accounts, but the attack did invalidate legitimate mining operations and crashed Verge's price by 10% due to news about the attack and the creation of a large pot of new coins. An unidentified hacker has mounted several \"double spend\" attacks on the infrastructure of the Bitcoin Gold cryptocurrency and has managed to amass over $18 million worth of BTG (Bitcoin Gold) coins in the process. According to a The attacker has been deploying a large number of servers to take control of more than half of the Bitcoin Gold's network hashrate in what's known as a \"51% attack.\" This grants the attacker the ability to modify details of blockchain transactions, an ability he's been using in the last few days to perform a second attack called \"double spend,\" which as the name implies, allows him to spend the same amount of coins twice. According to the Bitcoin Gold team, this attacker has been using this combination of a 51% and double-spend attack to defraud cryptocurrency exchange services. \"The cost of mounting an ongoing attack is high. Because the cost is high, the attacker can only profit if they can quickly get something of high value from a fake deposit,\" the Bitcoin Gold team explained. \"A party like an Exchange may accept large deposits automatically, allow the user to trade into a different coin quickly, and then withdraw automatically. This is why they are targeting Exchanges.\" For the last few days, the attacker has been doing just this. He's been depositing large amounts of BTG coins at exchanges, but also sending the same funds to his own wallet. By the time exchanges realize the blockchain has been tampered with and that the transaction is invalid, the hacker has already withdrawn funds from the exchange and doubled his original funds. To counteract attacks, exchanges have been raising the threshold needed to confirm a BTG transaction in the past few days, but the hacker has continued to deploy more and more mining power to take over more than half of the Bitcoin Gold network and carry out the double-spend attack anyway. The Bitcoin Gold team says it tracked the funds stolen from exchanges to a BTG address located at More than 388,000 BTG coins have passed through this account, suggesting the hacker has made over $18 million from his attacks. To be clear, the hacker hasn't been stealing money from users, but from the exchanges. While no user has lost money, the attacks are still dangerous because they might destabilize an exchange's backup funds, or may lead to its insolvency, which in turn may prevent users from withdrawing funds. Users may not be losing money right now, but if the attacks continue, some exchanges may go bankrupt and won't be able to refund users still keeping funds with the exchange. According to one of the exchange portals who collaborated with the Bitcoin Gold team to get to the bottom of these attacks, they also believe the person/group behind this past week's events has also attempted the same attack on the original Bitcoin network in the past. Bitcoin Gold is a very popular cryptocurrency created by forking the original Bitcoin currency in November 2017, currently ranked #27 based on total market cap. The US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has obtained court orders and has taken control of the command and control servers of a massive botnet of over 500,000 devices, known as the VPNFilter botnet. The existence of this massive threat Cisco said the botnet appeared to be preparing for an attack on Ukraine, as the botnet's operators were working hard to infect as many devices as possible within the country. The Ukrainian Secret Service The FBI confirmed that the botnet has been created and was under the control of a famous Russian cyber-espionage unit known under different names, such as APT28, Sednit, Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Sofacy, Grizzly Steppe, STRONTIUM, Tsar Team, and others. A This group has been behind several cyber-attacks aimed at Ukraine in the past, such as Security experts deemed the VPFilter botnet incredibly dangerous, not only because it was the work of a nation-state cyber group with nefarious reasons, but because it also included functions to intercept network traffic, search for SCADA equipment, and wipe firmware to temporarily brick devices. With such powerful capabilities, and with devices infected all over the world, US authorities stepped in to prevent further damage from this threat. Hours after the publication of the Cisco report, the FBI had obtained a With the domain firmly in its grasp, the FBI is now asking users across the world who own affected routers and NAS devices to reset their equipment. The reasoning, according to the FBI, is to make these devices reconnect to the command and control server, giving the FBI a full insight into the botnet's real size. The FBI plans to use this knowledge to create a list of vulnerable devices and notify ISPs, private and public sector partners that can deal with the infected devices. Owners of the following types of devices are vulnerable to the VPNFilter malware, and should reboot their devices, based on the FBI's advice: Microsoft said this week it plans to extend and enforce the new GDPR privacy protections to all of its customers, not just those based in EU countries. \"We will extend the rights that are at the heart of GDPR to all of our consumer customers worldwide,\" said Julie Brill, Corporate Vice President and Deputy General Counsel for Microsoft, in a statement on Monday. \"Known as Data Subject Rights, they include the right to know what data we collect about you, to correct that data, to delete it and even to take it somewhere else,\" Brill said. Users can find these new controls for managing their data in every Microsoft account dashboard, in the Microsoft has also updated its privacy statement for all users to reflect the addition of the GDPR-compatible rules. Changes to the The Windows OS maker has also launched a portal at GDPR stands for General Data Protection Regulation and is a new user and data privacy regulation slated to come into effect in the EU tomorrow, May 25, 2018 The new regulation brings a wealth of protections to user privacy but is a nightmare for companies doing business in Europe. Some companies not willing to deal with the GDPR compliance headache, have been blocking access to their services for EU users Others are officially shutting down service for EU users altogether. Examples include Verve (online marketing), Ragnarok Online (online game), Super Monday Night Combat (online game), Unroll (email subscription service), Brent Ozar Unlimited (software supplier), Tungle (gaming software provider), and Drawbridge (cross-device identity service). Microsoft is the first tech giant that decides to take a different approach and extend GDPR to all users, instead of finding loopholes to skirt privacy protection regulations —Mozilla developers are working on an improved Tracking Protection system for the Firefox browser that will land in version 63, scheduled for release in mid-October. Tracking Protection is a feature that blocks Firefox from loading scripts from abusive trackers. It was first launched with Firefox's Private Browsing mode a few years back, But Tracking Protection is not enabled by default, and to enable the protection for normal browsing sessions, users must visit Firefox's Settings  Privacy section, and press an on/off button. Firefox Tracking Protection makes the web a joy to use again. It makes pages load super-fast. It blocks the most annoying ads. And it gives me the piece of mind that I'm not being tracked as I surf the web. Enable it today in Firefox Options/Preferences/Settings — Asa Dotzler (@asadotzler) Because it's buried deep in Firefox's settings, very few people even know it exists, let alone that they can use it outside of Private Browsing windows. To promote this feature with users, Mozilla engineers are currently working on changes to the Firefox user interface to allow anyone to enable Tracking Protection at any time from various areas of the Firefox UI. These include the drop-down security panel that shows HTTPS information or the drop-down menu that can be triggered from the top-right side of the browser. But besides the changes to the UI, Firefox devs have also worked at improving its capabilities. The Firefox browser's Settings  Privacy section now features an enhanced Tracking Protection panel that also allows users to select what anti-tracking features they can enable. While Tracking Protection has Mozilla told Bleeping Computer in Last but not least, Mozilla engineers have also simplified the process of clearing cookies in Firefox. Starting with Firefox 63, you can now clear cookies and site data for a website directly from the security panel that appears whenever a user clicks the info/lock icon in the address bar. The new button will read \"Clear Cookies and Site Data...\" and it will show up at the bottom of the security panel —the panel used to show SSL certificate information. These features are also detailed in a Firefox design doc embedded below, and anyone can preview the UI changes right now by installing and using Firefox Nightly. Earlier today, Microsoft released cumulative update KB4100403 that fixes several bugs, including Users reported these issues after updating to the latest version of Windows 10, the April 2018 Update —also known as version 1803. Owners of computers using with Intel SSD 600p Series, Intel SSD Pro 6000p Series, Toshiba XG4 Series, Toshiba XG5 Series, and Toshiba BG3 Series reported various problems. More specifically, Windows PCs using Intel SSDs would often crash and enter a UEFI screen after reboot, while users of Toshiba SSDs reported lower battery life and SSD drives becoming very hot. Many users —who still had access to a working Windows OS— were forced to downgrade back to the previous version, the Fall Creators Update, while the rest had to reinstall Windows from scratch. Microsoft became aware of the issues after a week and worked with OEM partners to halt the deployment of the April 2018 Update to any devices using the affected Intel and Toshiba SSD models [The company promised a fix for early June, but Microsoft engineers rolled one out today, via This update is available via the normal Windows Update service, or users can KB4100403 is an update only available for Windows 10 and Windows Server 2016 version 1803, and besides the Intel and Toshiba SSD issues, it also patched the following bugs: As much as people enjoy their virtual assistants, sometimes they do things that are downright creepy. Such is the case for a family in Portland who discovered that Amazon Alexa recorded a conversation without permission and sent it to a random person in their contact list. According to This person, who was an employee of the husband, stated that he had received audio recordings of conversations that took place in the family's home. He was able to prove this by telling the family what they had just been talking about. When the Portland family contacted Amazon, they finally got in touch with an Amazon engineer who stated \"our engineers went through your logs, and they saw exactly what you told us, they saw exactly what you said happened, and we're sorry.\" Danielle, the family member who contacted Amazon, stated that Amazon did not provide any details as to how or why this happened.  She further wanted to return all of Amazon Alexa devices and get her money back, which Amazon has refused to do at this time. This is not the first time Alexa has started acting weird. A few months ago, Alexa started randomly laughing and freaking their owners out. Since then Amazon had BleepingComputer has contacted Amazon for a comment regarding this incident but had not heard back at the time of publication. Two years after being ousted, a criminal operation that has been inserting malware in the firmware of low-cost Android devices is still up and running, and has even expanded its reach. News of this group first surfaced At the time, experts said they found malware in the firmware of at least 26 low-cost Android smartphone and tablets models. Once ousted, Dr.Web hoped crooks would pack up and move on to another operation. But in a report released yesterday, cyber-security firm Avast says the group has never ceased operations and has continued to poison the firmware of more and more devices, growing their operation many times over. Avast published Comparing the Dr.Web and Avast reports, the malware doesn't seem to have received any updates and still operates in the same manner. It runs from the \"/system\" folder with full root rights, and its main role is to connect to a remote server, download an XML file, and then install one or more apps mentioned in this document. Because the malware ships as a firmware component, it can easily grab any app crooks tell it to and install it without any user interaction. In almost all cases, the apps the malware installs are used solely to display ads on top of other apps or the Android interface itself. Many Android users have been noticing the ads [Crooks are obviously interested in generating revenue via ads alone, and no other shady behavior has been seen. The only times the malware won't download additional apps is when the device's language is set to Chinese, when the device's public IP address is also from a Chinese IP range, and when the number of locally installed apps is below three (indicating a test/scan environment). While it appears the group may be operating out of China because it avoids infecting Chinese users —hence avoid law enforcement attention—, Avast has not yet been able to fully determine this fact. The cyber-security firm says it has had a hard time tracking when the malware is inserted in the firmware of these devices. There are too many mobile carriers and smartphone vendors affected to pin the blame on one of them. Infected devices have been found in over 90 countries, and the only common component between them is that they all use a Mediatek chipset. But MediaTek can't be blamed either, as not all devices from an affected smartphone model are infected with the malware. If one of the MediaTek firmware components would have harbored the malware, then all devices for a specific model would have been affected, not just a handful. This means the group is opportunistic and infects devices at random, as it finds a window during which it can poison their firmware. For now, Avast says it managed to take down the group's command-and-control server for a small period of time, but because the domain registrar hasn't intervened to invalidate the group's domain name, the group simply switched to another hosting provider. 