---
layout: post
title: FBI boss: We went to the Moon, so why can't we have crypto backdoors? – and more this week
date: 2018-07-31 01:02:16
tourl: /2018/07/28/security_roundup/
tags: [Tor,FIREEYE,Attack,Source,Exploitation]
---
On Tuesday Senators Pat Toomey (R-PA) and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) sent a The two are depressingly vague about what exactly they would like to see done, but we can't imagine the accused are trembling in their Afoor boots. But it got the senators a bit of publicity, which is probably the point of the exercise.Speaking at the Aspen Security Conference Wray returned to the tired old theme that criminals were "going dark" thanks to encryption and thus the government needs access. Despite it being a mathematical impossibility to introduce a backdoor that no one else can find, Wray was sure there must be a way, as he explained on camera:"We're a country that has unbelievable innovation," he said. "We put a man on the Moon. We have the power of flight. We have autonomous vehicle. The idea that we can't solve this problem as a society -- I just don't buy it."It's an argument that has been used before, so often in fact that Matt Blaze, professor of Computer and Information Science at the University of Pennsylvania and Tor Project board member, came up with this pithy comeback."When I hear 'if we can put a man on the moon, we can do this' I'm hearing an analogy almost saying 'if we can put a man on the moon, surely we can put a man on the sun,'" he said.Researchers at Cisco's Talos security team Thankfully Talos are big on responsible disclosure, and a firmware fix is now available. If you have a so-called SmartThings Hub then you'd be advised to download and install the latest updates for your device. But it does make you wonder – if a massive manufacturer like Samsung can't get security right, what are the odds your Kickstarter funded device has?The company's website was so poorly designed that any visitor could access any of the email addresses of Lifelock's 4.5 million customers. The flaw, As bugs go it could have been worse. No passwords, ID information or credit card data could have been swiped. But it did make the Lifelock people, and their owners Symantec, look very silly indeed.A paper published in the Harvard Business Review by the Northwestern Institute on Complex Systems Crucially, the paper seemed to suggest that Dropbox user records had been handed over to the institute's researchers to study without being properly anonymized. For instance, it was claimed the researchers were able to inspect individual file and folder names in the Dropbox accounts.Naturally the excrement hit the air-con unit, and In short: check the fine print of any online service you rely on – and if you host people's files on the internet, it's not a good look to let outside eggheads scrutinize your customers' behaviors, anonymized or not.If you want to avoid this code, AdGuard has a Supposed environmental protection seminar documents actually came loaded with exploits targeting Microsoft Office vulnerabilities (CVE-2017-0199) and (CVE-2017-11882) and geared towards dropping the Felixroot backdoor. Security firm FireEye reports that the same backdoor abused last September in a campaign involving malicious Ukrainian bank documents.Flexiroot backdoor attack overview [source: FireEye blog post]The malware is distributed via Russian-language documents, in the latest green concerns-tinged account.The hackers are going after a pair of fashionable exploitation targets, FireEye concludes."CVE-2017-0199 and CVE-2017-11882 are two of the more commonly exploited vulnerabilities that we are currently seeing, a blog post on the threat from FireEye The Leafminer crew use a mixture of watering hole websites, vulnerability scans of network services on the internet, and brute-force/dictionary login attempts and it appears they are primarily after emails and database logins.The researchers found a list of 809 targeted organizations, two thirds of which were in Saudi Arabia, the Lebanon, Israel and Kuwait also targeted. Occam's Razor would suggest that maybe the Iranian hacking teams have a new subgroup that's going to work.Of course, it's bollocks, but the social engineering was quite clever, using a stolen password to convince the recipient that the threats were real. Now An analysis of the Bitcoin wallets used in some of the emails suggests the scumbags have netted at least $250,000 and possibly over a million in cryptocurrency. As someone who has 