---
layout: post
title: The Valor Games: Personal Limits are Meant to be Broken
date: 2018-06-20 00:02:0
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/lifeatcisco/the-valor-games-personal-limits-are-meant-to-be-broken
tags: [Group]
---
tttOver my 16 year career as a Soldier in the US Army I was driven by competition on a daily basis, and was also active in a variety of sports from basketball and softball to running. Competition drives me to be better than I was the day before.Luckily, I’ve found new ways to remain competitive as a TAC Engineer at Cisco on the Enterprise Route and Switch team! On this team I’m challenged daily with the chance to help solve customers’ circumstances.  And in 2016, I was also afforded the opportunity to participate as an athlete for the Valor Games.The Valor Games helped me to understand that a disability doesn’t mean you are limited nor does it define who you are. Thanks to the Valor Games, I learned that the “customary” way of competing isn’t the only way.What are the Valor Games? Its three days of spirited competition in 11 sports (like wheel chair basketball, rowing, archery, and cycling) between Veterans and members of the Armed Forces with disabilities from around the United States. National coaches and experts in each sport are also available to educate, evaluate, and empower as we descend upon the Raleigh/Durham/Chapel Hill area in North Carolina.I’ve also realized that the Army, Cisco, and the Valor Games all have values that build on each other. Values are a key component to our lives, and the Army focuses on them daily. Loyalty, duty, respect, selfless service, honor, integrity and personal courage are all values in others that I’ve become accustomed to working with. I was worried after transitioning out of the Army that I wouldn’t find these same types of values that I had found in my fellow soldiers.Teamwork was especially important to me as it is required within a squad and vital to success.  Cisco and my colleagues here have shown that I had nothing to worry about. I’m exceptionally thankful that I have discovered that same style of teamwork and values at Cisco.Cisco is one of the finest assembly of engineers anyone could ask to work for, and I am proud to work alongside such an incredibly talented, dedicated group.Two years later after beginning with the Valor Games, it’s been amazing to continue giving back to my fellow brothers and sisters in arms.  I love being given the opportunity to help others going through similar situations realize that there is hope for their future and the only limitation is the one you place on yourself.Want to work for a company that encourages you to grow? We’re hiring. We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 