---
layout: post
title: ?Local SME Salsa Digital awarded GovCMS contract
date: 2018-07-20 01:02:11
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/local-sme-salsa-digital-awarded-govcms-contract/
tags: [Source]
---
 tThe Australian Department of Finance has appointed Victorian-based small to medium-sized enterprise (SME) Salsa Digital to provide program, application, and support services for the next iteration of Government Content Management System (GovCMS).tFinance went to market in February totAccording to Finance, Salsa Digital will offer support and program management in close collaboration with the department, while its subcontractor amazee.io will manage the underlying hosting platform and infrastructure.SaaS had a major impact on the way companies consume cloud services. This ebook looks at how the as a service trend is spreading and transforming IT jobs. tGovCMS is an initiative under Finance, built around the principle "create once, use often" in a bid to simplify government IT and eliminate duplicated, fragmented, and sub-scale activities across agencies. tThe content management and website hosting platform was developed to reduce the technology and compliance burden on government agencies, while providing a more cost-effective option for managing websites. tAccording to Finance, it provides agencies with a platform to design, develop, and host websites, allowing them to focus on providing content and services to the community. tAt the same time, the concept of GovCMS aims to build "communities of digital expertise" across all levels of government. tFinance first began offering the GovCMS platform to agencies in 2015 and the new hosting arrangements will be available for GovCMS customers before the end of 2018. tThe department said it will manage the migration of existing SaaS websites to the new platform, and will work with agencies to migrate PaaS sites across once SaaS migrations are complete. t"GovCMS websites will operate in a fully containerised environment which will reduce and simplify agency development efforts, with the same setup and configuration across environments," Finance wrote. "All SaaS websites will be highly available, with a guaranteed uptime of 99.99 percent and have self-healing capabilities. PaaS websites can elect for the higher availability option." tIn the request for proposal (RFP) published in February, Finance said it wanted to improve the overall delivery of mobile-responsive websites across the government, including having a more "standardised" user experience when dealing with whole-of-government. tJust over three years ago, GovCMS inked atAccording to Finance, the new hosting solution for GovCMS will be built on a "full-stack open source, cloud-agnostic platform, complementing the open source GovCMS Drupal 7 and Drupal 8 distributions". tIt said the platform will provide all the tools and environments for developing, testing, deploying, managing, supporting, and hosting GovCMS sites. tGovCMS currently boasts 223 live sites, with another 37 currently in development. There are 77 government agencies using the platform.Awarding the contract to an SME comes as the Digital Transformation Agency is attempting to spread the AU$6.5 billion spent annually on IT by the Australian government across the smaller players by refreshing the way the government procures IT-related services,tEarlier this week, the office of the National Health Practitioner Ombudsman and Privacy Commissioner encountered a "technical issue" that took its website offline on Tuesday evening. tA spokesperson told ZDNet the issue that exposed its directory listing, with access to an SQL database dump, was a result of routine website maintenance. t"The website is public-facing and its purpose is to provide general information only about the work of the National Health Practitioner Ombudsman and Privacy Commissioner," the spokesperson said of the WordPress-based website. t"It is important to note that the website does not host or collect identifying personal information, or health information such as medical records. t"The cause was not cybersecurity-related, but a maintenance issue, and the situation was rectified by 9:40pm on Tuesday evening." tThe website misconfiguration came as the Australian government was dealing with security concerns over its contentious My Health Record digital medical file. t tAfter Microsoft's contentious addition to the Certified Cloud Services List, the Australian Signals Directorate has revealed it is working with another seven companies interested in providing cloud services to government. t tCanberra has a 'coherent strategy' for digital transformation, government senators say, as opposition senators claim there is a lack of will. t tThe Department of Human Services this week handed out AU$54.9 million to Dell EMC, IBM, and Oracle. t tStraight-faced, a Department of Human Services representative told a Senate committee its data-matching 'robodebt' project went well, because it produced savings. t tThere's a lot of money to be made by controlling open source, but far more can be made with community-driven open source.