---
layout: post
title: A Market-Making Decade for Sports and Entertainment
date: 2018-06-15 00:02:10
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/digital/a-market-making-decade-for-sports-and-entertainment
tags: [Group]
---
tttIt’s amazing how far we’ve come in 10 years…Back in 2007, a group of Cisco executives gathered to discuss how Cisco might tap into the sports and entertainment business. The group of 15 self-identified sports fanatics recognized that the industry was ripe for disruption, and that by developing an innovative technology solution they would have the necessary catalyst to unlock an area of untapped potential.That group of engineers and visionaries developed a product called StadiumVision (now Cisco Vision), which allows venue owners to push video and digital content, including targeted advertising, to fans in the stadium. Along with sales and marketing, the group won the business of the New York Yankees and Dallas Cowboys. A multimillion-dollar business was born in less than six months.Fast forward a decade and Cisco SportsEntertainment technology and solutions – high-density Wi-Fi, mobile video, 4k IPTV and more – have been deployed in 350+ venues in more than 40 countries around the world. From As leagues and teams look out at the future, two key issues are at hand:The answers to those two questions will hinge on a trifecta of factors: IoT, video and security.The IoT world continues to expand and shows no signs of slowing. The In the entertainment space, Cisco has been working with Live Nation to create a more convenient and enhanced live music experience. By installing Cisco HD Wi-Fi at 28 Live Nation amphitheaters across the country and at festivals like BottleRock Napa Valley, fans can pre-order food, or have food delivered to their seats, and ensure they don’t miss a minute of the show. In addition, Cisco has worked with the biggest tours (U2 Joshua Tree Tour, Similarly, as digital video delivery and consumption has exploded over the last decade, Cisco’s network allowed the National Basketball Association (NBA) to capitalize and bring statistics and highlights from the court to fans around the world in real time. That industry-leading security along with IP video contribution and distribution solutions was why Needless to say, it has been quite a decade! And I can’t wait to see what the next 10 years have in store for Cisco in the sports and entertainment space.Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 