---
layout: post
title: DOJ Cyber Task Force expected to release first-ever report in late July
date: 2018-07-03 00:02:10
tourl: https://www.cyberscoop.com/doj-cyber-task-force-expected-release-first-ever-report-late-july/?category_news=technology
tags: [Group]
---
The Department of Justice’s internal “Cyber-Digital Task Force,” created by Attorney General Jeff Sessions in February, will release its first-ever public report later this month at the Aspen Institute’s annual Security Forum, a department spokesperson told CyberScoop.The report is A statement by the DOJ When Sessions launched the group earlier this year, he requested that an initial report be completed by June 30. The recommendations were submitted ahead of time, according to DOJ spokesperson Ian Prior. The answers are currently being reviewed ahead of publication.This disclosure was made hours after the Democratic National Committee (DNC) released a press release criticizing the DOJ and Trump administration on missing various cybersecurity policy deadlines, including the June 30 submission. The agency contends that they in fact made the deadline, although it’s publication won’t happen for a few weeks. The Aspen Security Forum begins on July 18.In my inbox: DNC goes for the dunk after Trump administration reportedly misses some cyber policy deadlines. Most recent was a June 30th DOJ report on combating election interference .. I have reached out to find out more — Chris Bing (@Bing_Chris) The creation of the Cybersecurity Task Force on Feb. 20 came less than a week after Special Counsel Robert Mueller indicted a group of Russian internet trolls for interfering in U.S. politics. The Russians allegedly ran an extensive social media campaign that worked to trick American voters in the run-up to the 2016 presidential election, the indictment claims.Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein is expected to make “an exclusive policy announcement” on July 19 at the Aspen Institute event.