---
layout: post
title: Why Hybrid Cloud Makes Sense for Developers
date: 2018-07-30 13:02:11
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/cloud/hybrid-cloud-makes-sense
tags: [Source]
---
tttDevelopers are always looking to embrace new technologies that can help them build the applications that drive innovation forward. This was evident at the      Cloud is one of the ways many companies will future-proof business, deliver applications, and innovate faster than ever before. In the Google Cloud Next ‘18 And that’s why hybrid cloud makes so much sense for developers.Hybrid cloud is fast becoming the way developers strike the middle ground between the existing and new, hybrid optimized infrastructures. Cisco is doing a lot to help developers tap into the power of hybrid cloud infrastructure.Developers are big drivers of public cloud adoption in the enterprise. The new hybrid cloud reality helps developers take advantage of technologies like containers, microservices, APIs, and more from public cloud toolsets and platforms to build applications both on-premises and in the cloud. Hybrid cloud enables them to work across their organization’s complete application landscape and develop across any environment.Solutions like the Public cloud gives developers new tools, speed and scale, but the future of application development involves working across different environments in a modular way, rather than “lifting and shifting” workloads between isolated ones. In this new era of hybrid cloud solutions, open source technologies like containers which run anywhere are making development and deployment much easier.Google Cloud just awarded Cisco the More and more companies are embracing DevOps to be able to move at a faster pace than with traditional software development approaches. A hybrid cloud infrastructure enables developers, IT ops, and security to work fluidly between development and operations instead of creating new technology and skills silos. It bridges the technology gaps that exist between teams and makes the most of existing legacy application investments and cloud-native tools. Teams can move to a continuous delivery model, releasing code not a couple of times a year, but sometimes multiple times per hour.These are just a few reasons why hybrid cloud is key for developers in accelerating innovation. Applications are the lifeblood of many businesses and we’ve seen a big need for applications to be developed, deployed, and managed across both the data centers and clouds. If you are a developer, I encourage you to check out the solutions and resources above, to help you tap into the potential of the new hybrid cloud reality.And in case you missed us at Google Cloud Next ’18, check out some of the replays of our co-presented sessions below:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 