title:Social media: A treasure trove of spam and scams June 5, 2018 - How do spammers know how to target you for scams? They use social media to produce the most convincing types of spam.CONTINUE READING
date:2018-06-05 17:02:53
tourl:https://blog.malwarebytes.com/cybercrime/social-engineering-cybercrime/2018/06/social-media-a-treasure-trove-of-spam-and-scams/
tags:[act]
 \t\t\tToday, Talos is publishing a glimpse into the most prevalent threats we’ve observed between May 18 and May 25. As with previous round-ups, this post isn’t meant to be an in-depth analysis. Instead, this post will summarize the threats we’ve observed by highlighting key behavioral characteristics, indicators of compromise, and discussing how our customers are automatically protected from these threats. As a reminder, the information provided for the following threats in this post is non-exhaustive and current as of the date of publication. Detection and coverage for the following threats is subject to updates, pending additional threat or vulnerability analysis. For the most current information, please refer to your Firepower Management Center, Snort.org, or ClamAV.net. Read more We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tWe at Cisco have been delivering network orchestration and automation products for a number of years now. Our customers have deployed To start with, we see our customers gaining a more mature understanding the technical and operational transformation required to deploy NFV, and where they can expect return on investment for their NFV investment.  From this understanding, they are making the following demand of vendors: As the NFV market matures, Cisco NSO with NFVO and ESC have continued to build on our experience in the network orchestration.  We are happy to show customers how our Network Orchestration products can automate their NFV.  Following are some of our product capabilities that I would like to highlight: If you are looking for a vendor-agnostic Orchestration platform to automate your NFV initiative, Cisco NSO NFVO is up for the job.   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join Thank you Greg for posting this product and technology update.  Please feel free to check out the Cisco NSO NFV Orchestration white paper at https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/solutions/collateral/service-provider/solutions-cloud-providers/white-paper-c11-738702.html.\t\t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t\t\t\tVery nice Blog. For best Industrial Automation Training in Delhi, India. Visit:- http://www.innovicindia.com/best-industrial-automation-training-institute-in-noida-delhi-ncr.php or call on 9811253572\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\tDevelopers are usually the focus of blame when software vulnerabilities cause organizational breaches. (Sometimes, quality assurance engineers are included in the flame.) Interestingly, though, hardly anyone looks at We’re talking about the culture, the processes, the unrealistic deadlines, and—perhaps the worst of this bunch—the lack of awareness between the business and development sides. The former must realize that as they innovate, they need to adapt and respond to the ever-changing threat landscape; the latter must know how to write good, clean, secure code. Each organizational breach is a testament to something going wrong somewhere. And it’s a lot more complicated than assuming developers are just lazy at coding. To understand what’s really going on, we’ve listed some of the reasons Most of us assume that programmers, well-versed in multiple programming languages as they are, should also know how to write secure code. This just isn’t true. According to While computer science, information systems, and computer engineering students are taught how to code, accredited schools are simply not teaching them security by design. Secure coding is now something programmers must educate themselves on how to do. Software developers are expected to adhere to rigid deadlines. No ifs, ands, or buts. On top of this, they also have to balance conflicting interests from multiple stakeholders, refine code functionalities, and ensure that the program is reliable and stable. Programmers have to tick several more boxes before reaching the bottom of the list, where security is. In fact, it’s more common for programmers to skip security checks, so they deploy the program as-is: a working, efficient, but vulnerable product. Essentially, it’s half-baked. As much as software developers would want to keep their code as risk-free as possible, they cannot. The tools needed for this are expensive and can be a hard sell for organizations that have budget constraints or who utterly fail to grasp the importance of reducing software vulnerabilities. Vulnerable software is the bane of business organizations. In this age of breaches, you’d think it’s only logical for organizations to secure vulnerable software, starting with their own. Yet, bad code remains prevalent to this day. It’s up to management to take charge and prioritize security in the development process. By adopting any or all of these suggestions to eradicate bad code, businesses can not only help software developers do a better job, but also potentially secure their reputation, data, and ongoing survival. Shall we begin? Training is perhaps the best and most effective way to get software developers to improve their coding. To do this, management has several options: invite a third-party organization to conduct training, have their software engineers enroll in workshops outside of the workplace, or have them register for online classes. Should they decide to hire a third party, there are some private institutions they can turn to. Depending on the programming languages your developers are using, upper management must establish secure coding standards they can adhere to. Thankfully, they don’t have to start from scratch. There are A convention includes recommended programming styles, methods, and other coding practices. Adhering to one significantly lessens errors, makes the source code readable to other programmers, and is easier to maintain in the long run. Make no mistake: secure coding should be as important to company culture as it is to the overall software development process. The aim of having such a culture is to imbibe security practices so deep that they become second nature. These practices grow into valuable traits programmers can take with them anywhere. As we keep saying, security is no longer the job of one department in a company. It is now everyone’s job to ensure that sensitive client information is kept safe and secure, and to think twice before clicking that link or opening that email attachment. If security is stressed as an important part of company culture, that mindset can extend beyond staving off breaches to keeping your customers just as safe. A policy is vital to have as this guides software developers not only on what security features to bake into their applications, but also how these should be implemented. Unfortunately, organizations often overlook this, leaving their applications, intellectual property, and other vital information open to compromise. Embedding a security policy to the SDLC is a must. If the company makes their product available to the European market, then embedding Bug bounties in general are Rigid timelines may get the job done, but they also encourage sloppy coding. A finished product doesn’t mean it’s a secure one. If security checks on code are usually ignored because of the project schedule, wouldn’t it be better for project managers to set the timeline with a little padding in case something happens and the target date isn’t met? Today’s threat landscape no longer allows half-baked applications. A slight schedule slippage can be remedied, but a breach due to flaws that wouldn’t have been missed during code reviews could cause more problems and unnecessary expenditures for the company. This can be done by creating an environment where developers are not only required to meet standards, but want to. One way is ensuring that software programmers have the tools and equipment they need. For app developers, they may require several mobile devices (phones and tablets) they can use for testing. Upper management must also work closely with team and project leaders to provide programmers access to necessary information they need for the project and people they can reach out to for advice. Other things that are important to developers are ergonomic furniture, a fast PC, a personal space where they can work quietly and privately, writing materials and whiteboards, and an RR area where they can meet with other employees. Should upper management set up an incentive program for good coding? It might be the natural step to take—although, A word on Every company looking to improve their overall security posture, beginning with addressing the problem of bad code, should know that a 100 percent turnaround isn’t possible at the onset. Change is usually slow. However, after about a year of baking security into the coding process, expect a highly significant return on investment. This was the result of Code that works is well-designed, efficient, usable, readable, and (most importantly) secure. It is not impossible to achieve. All organizations have to do is start getting rid of bad coding habits.  \t\t\tHow can we work together to speed the pace of social change while making it more intuitive than ever before? In this live #CiscoChat, we’ll take a look at some of the ways companies, organizations, and individuals can go above and beyond to transform our world for the better. From increasing access to innovative medical technology to improving disaster response and creating economic opportunity for others, there are endless opportunities to solve global problems. By joining this chat, you’ll explore how real #GlobalProblemSolvers are making a positive impact in the world and gain critical insights into how you can become one, too. This live video discussion will be moderated by Austin Belisle, social media and content manager for Cisco In Orlando, attendees will have the opportunity to build pi-top’s modular laptops in our To participate in this live video chat: We hope to hear from you on June 4th, and can’t wait for another exciting Cisco Live! Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\t#CiscoChampion Radio is a podcast series by technologists for technologists. In this episode, Cisco Champions Aaron Kirk discuss the NOC at Cisco Live with Joe Clarke. Listen in and provide us feedback, we would love to hear from you! Cisco Champions are an elite group of technical experts who are passionate about IT and enjoy sharing their knowledge, expertise, and thoughts across the social web and with Cisco. The program has been running for over five years and has earned two industry awards as an industry best practice. Learn more about the program at   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tDo you ever wish you could predict the future? What if I told you that you don’t have to be a wizard from the Harry Potter books, visit a tarot card reader, or take a silly BuzzFeed quiz to predict the future? And what if I told you divination is not just a fictional magic term? (For those not so loyal Harry Potter fans, divination is a branch of magic that involves attempting to foresee the future, or gather insights into future events, through various rituals and tools.) Experience divination come to life as you see into the future of your network with You can ensure future network performance for optimal user experiences with real-time and historical data analytics to learn, adapt, and even detect problems before they happen. Get a glimpse into the future by modeling changes on the network and testing configurations before you deploy them. Not only will DNA Center Assurance allow you to see into the future, but you can also solve for network challenges in the past and present. The network can quickly identify the root cause of the roughest wired and wireless networking problems – past or present – with suggested remediation to drive up productivity. Today, IT teams spend 43 percent of their time troubleshooting network issues. Reduce the amount of time and money spent troubleshooting and be more proactive in identifying, diagnosing and predicting issues across the network. Get some of your crucial time back with the combination of DNA Center Assurance and We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tYou don’t want to miss the upcoming region The theme of Cisco Live is “Imagine Intuitive.” We’re going to give you the tools to imagine, and then turn around and make it realwith your customers. Register for your regional partner webinar now at We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tThe new C-Series multinode rack server is comprised of the chassis and server nodes. The chassis is 2RU and supports four server nodes. There are 24 front loading, hot plug, SFF drive bays. Each of the four nodes is allocated six drive bays – either all SAS/SATA or two NVMe plus four SAS/SATA. It has dual 2400W power supplies providing plenty of power for the beefiest configurations.   The C125 M5 is Cisco’s first server based on     While speeds  feeds are nice, they are not the most important thing to consider when purchasing servers for scale out workloads. The real question is how quickly a new server can be deployed to deliver results and how much additional time and resources you will need to manage it. Other server vendors offer multinode servers, only Cisco offers you a system. What do I mean by a system? At its core, UCS is a fabric-centric architecture with a centralized management model. All of Cisco’s servers: Do you have to use Cisco Intersight? Of course not. Like all C-Series rack servers, the C125 M5 has a Cisco IMC (If you want to learn more about the our new multinode system, contact your Cisco sales team or You can also find more information on the C4200  C125 M5 at For more information on the entire Cisco UCS portfolio, go to   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join Nice post!\t\t\t\t \t\t\t\t \t\t\tWhen my children were younger, the first sign of summer—besides the longer days and warmer temperatures—was our annual trip to our local bookstore. We (me included!) always came home from these jaunts with arms full of books. A few were from their school’s ubiquitous “summer reading” list, but many were titles we selected ourselves. There were usually books from across genres—from old favorites and best sellers to self-help and cookbooks—books we thought looked interesting or sounded fun, even books we’d been looking forward to reading all year. My children are older now, so a family trip to the bookstore to kick off summer is no longer a guarantee. Still, I am gathering my own summer-reading collection. There’s some new fiction I’d like to read, and I think this may be the summer I tackle George Eliot’s If you’re thinking of your own summer-reading list and have digital teaching and learning on your mind, I’d like to make a few suggestions. Some of these are about topics that fall into that “more serious” category—think cybersecurity and IT modernization—but others are inspirational and even fun. The thought of IT modernization may be intimidating, but the mandate to update IT systems is very real. Ensuring cybersecurity from core to edge is one of the essential elements of IT modernization, and the subject of cybersecurity is top of mind for many. This is especially true for those in education, where institutions strike a delicate balance between safeguarding personal data and intellectual property, and encouraging academic freedom, openness, and collaboration. The In the Did you know that the The median number of security professionals is increasing consistently.  Still, for schools, colleges, and universities educating tomorrow’s workforce, the lack of skilled security talent across all industries has positive implications: It’s always exciting to learn about how other schools, colleges, and universities are changing teaching and learning with digital technology. We’d love to hear what you’re looking forward to reading this summer! Share your recommendations in the comments section below. Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tBack in 1940, a Canadian named Norman Breakey invented the paint roller—a leap forward in painting technology. Immediately, professional painters panicked, fearing large-scale job loss, and for years, paint rollers were banned from professional painting jobs. But of course, large-scale adoption was inevitable and now we all use paint rollers. Fast forward 77 years, and we have a whole new wave of “techno panics.” Taxi drivers have demonstrated against ride-sharing services in New York, London, and Tokyo. India’s minister of transport and highways has declared that Is there reason to panic? It’s true that technology is causing disruption in many sectors – even after recovering 300,000 jobs since the depths of the Great Recession, the auto industry still has about But we’ve been here before, and we’ll be here again. The mass production of automobiles killed the jobs of backsmiths and carriage drivers, but raised thousands of autoworkers into the middle class in the early 20    One option is panic, denial, and resistance – the response of painters and railway workers 80 years ago. But I believe that if technology played a role in creating this disruption, technology can also help us deal with it. Studies have shown that in several areas, new technologies are actually helping to create more jobs than they eliminate. For Technology companies and employers must work together to give workers the skills they will need to work with these new technologies. The Paint rollers and self-driving cars have a lot in common – they represent a huge leap forward in productivity and innovation, and they force us to confront our fears about change. Paint rollers caused industry disruption, as will self-driving cars, robots and AI. But I’m betting on the unimagined opportunities that are bound to come on the heels of technology disruption. Because after disruption comes transformation. Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tVulnerabilities discovered by Cory Duplantis from Talos. In April 2018, Talos published We strongly recommend readers to refer to the “Discussion” part of the previous article in order to clearly understand the risk of vulnerabilities targeting health devices. We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tThis blog post is authored by Talos has discovered a new malicious Hangul Word Processor (HWP) document targeting Korean users. If a malicious document is opened, a remote access trojan that we’re calling “NavRAT” is downloaded, which can perform various actions on the victim machine, including command execution, and has keylogging capabilities. The decoy document is named “?? ???? ?? ? ??.hwp” (Prospects for US-North Korea Summit.hwp). The HWP file format is mainly used in South Korea. An Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) object is embedded within the document in order to execute malicious shellcode on the victim systems. The purpose is to download and execute an additional payload hosted on a compromised website: NavRAT. This is a classic RAT that can download, upload, execute commands on the victim host and, finally, perform keylogging. However, the command and control (C2) infrastructure is very specific. It uses the legitimate Naver email platform in order to communicate with the attackers via email. The uploaded file(s) are sent by email, and the downloaded files are retrieved from an email attachment. We have already observed malware using free email platforms for abuse, but this is the first time we have identified a malware that uses Naver — which is known for its popularity in South Korea. One of the most interesting questions we still have is regarding attribution — and who is behind this malware. Previously, we published several articles concerning Group123 (We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tThe building blocks for a distributed access architecture (DAA) are shipping from Cisco. More than 60 customers in 25 countries spanning 4 continents have received key DAA components, such as Remote PHY nodes, Remote PHY shelves, cBR-8 digital cards and Smart PHY automation software. DAA holds much promise to simplify cable operations and improve overall network reliability and makes it easier to manage and configure the cable network and the services that are delivered by the network. As part of DAA, employing Remote PHY devices (RPDs) in nodes are a key element to enable 10G digital optics, Ethernet and IP used for delivering services to nodes. Another network element that is key to DAA success is a rack mounted RPD shelf. Rack mounted RPDs are designed to connect analog nodes to digital Converged Cable Access Platform (CCAP) cores. Installed in the hub or headend, they are connected to CCAP cores via 10G digital optical connections routed through Layer2/3 Ethernet switch routers. The output of each rack mount RPD is traditional RF analog broadband, which is connected to analog fiber optics that transmit to and from legacy analog nodes in the access network. Rack mounted RPDs allow digital fiber optics and Ethernet to replace cumbersome RF hub-based coaxial distribution cables and amplifiers that were used to feed analog optical transmitters. There are two use cases for RPD shelves. The first use case is to enable one CCAP core to serve multiple small and/or distant hubs via digital fiber (i.e. hub site consolidation). The benefits are appreciable savings in both CCAP equipment and operations costs, because RPD shelves enable CCAP processing in fewer locations, using longer distance digital optics between one CCAP core and multiple remote hubs, each with one or more RPD shelf. However, there is a second, equally valuable benefit of RPD shelves. Consider a network in which a large portion, but not all, of the hub nodes will be upgraded to an N+0 (node + 0), DAA architecture.  For this portion of the network, it doesn’t make economic sense to rebuild and convert existing analog nodes to digital (RPD) nodes. The cable operator is faced with operating and managing a portion of the network with conventional edge QAMs, combining networks and analog optics, while the majority of the network employs digital optics, Ethernet and IP routing to do the same things. Instead of making operations simpler, operations is faced with supporting both the legacy network and the new digital network, having to support two very different operating procedures simultaneously in the same hub. By using Remote PHY shelves to provide all connectivity to analog nodes, this problem is solved. A single, unified mode of operations is created for the hub, across both the analog and digital portions of the network. Specifically, RF combining networks and amplifiers in the hub can be completely eliminated, replaced by Ethernet switches and digital optics. Video services can be converged with data through the CCAP core if desired. Analog RF outputs from CCAP platforms can be eliminated, and CCAP platforms can be operated as CCAP cores, resulting in a higher service group density per platform. Future node splits can be done in digital, even if the node being split is analog. Simply put, Remote PHY shelves enable a hybrid analog/digital network to be managed as a single DAA network. Software and hardware interoperability continue to be essential for enabling a DAA. The Open Remote PHY Device (OpenRPD) initiative was established to stimulate the adoption of a DAA by providing reference software for OpenRPD members, encouraging future OpenRPD devices to be based on interoperable software standards and enabling them to develop OpenRPD devices more quickly than by developing code from scratch. Cisco continues to be a key member of the initiative, openly developing and contributing significant portions of RPD software code to the initiative. To verify that hardware and software interoperability work as advertised, CableLabsThe Distributed Access Architecture is a dramatic evolutionary change in the cable network. It is a step toward cloud-native CCAP and the evolution of cable networks to a Converged Interconnect Network (CIN). With our comprehensive hardware and software portfolio for DAA, including the cBR-8 platform, Remote PHY digital nodes and Smart Digital Nodes, Remote PHY shelves that can be configured for redundant operation, and SmartPHY software, Cisco can help cable operators radically simplify the configuration and management of DAA networks. Visit the We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tEvery business has mission critical applications that they rely on in their daily operations. For many companies those critical applications are SAP ERP, and these companies need infrastructure to handle intensive workloads from these apps. Hyperconverged Infrastructure (HCI) provides many advantages, like simplified management and flexibility, for deploying your SAP ERP, but you have to pick the right one. Your business needs a powerful, modernized HCI system that provides consistent, fast performance, even during peak usage, and scales easily as your business needs grow. Attending SAP Sapphire next week? Come by Cisco booth #550 to learn more about HyperFlex solutions for SAP. Stay tuned during the conference for an announcement of a new SAP solution from Cisco Container Platform and HyperFlex.   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tCisco and Downer have an ongoing strategic Internet of Things (IoT) partnership that was recently expanded to include Smart Cities. Downer, a diversified engineering and services company headquartered in Australia, In smart cities, everything is connected. IoT together with automation allows monitoring and processing of terabytes of real-time data to allow multiple systems and infrastructure within cities to be monitored to ensure the public welfare. But with massive amounts of data comes the huge threat of security breaches and nefarious activity. That’s why it’s so important for smart cities to have smart security solutionsDowner embarked upon the project to build a secure, centralized data center where CCTV security feeds from across Western Australia would be consolidated. This is the first project of this type. No playbook existed. Downer turned to Cisco as their partner to jointly innovate solutions for connecting disparate equipment and ensure the entire system was protected against cyber criminals. The Downer team was assigned a Cisco Customer Success manager to deploy the data center, secured with the Firepower 2100 NGFW and industry leading NGIPS to protect the infrastructure. We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tThe annual The team of individuals responsible for the network, which has grown every year as the size and complexity of the network has grown, ranges from early-in-career associate systems engineers to experienced CCIEs, technical leaders, and distinguished engineers. Many of these people return every year. Let me take you on a walk down memory lane, to demonstrate how the team has changed at each level over time. In 2015, we needed to redesign the data center for Cisco Live Europe. I led this project. If I had to add a new VLAN, it meant manually configuring four switches, four UCS fabrics, and 16 compute hosts. Carefully applying the necessary commands on all of the devices took a good 20 minutes – while the network was running. I didn’t want to ever do that again. So, since I had been spreading the message of automation at Cisco Live in various breakout sessions, it was time to practice what I preached. I began to build scripts that would automate the whole process. At the 2016 Cisco Live, none of the configuration had to be applied by hand. Instead of taking 20 minutes to configure one VLAN, four new VLANs were created in two minutes. This successful use of automation was addictive. The next year, since we were using a similar data center architecture, I spent more time building scripts to monitor the health of the data center, the services running in it and the network itself. This allowed all of us to proactively mitigate potential issues, such as routing table changes, DHCP pool exhaustion, interfaces going into an error-disabled state and devices becoming unreachable. Network interactions are changing – from manual configuration to driven by automation and orchestration and now highly intent-focused. However, what will not change is the need for engineers at every skill level. Junior engineers will use more web-based portals or Application Programming Interface (API) invocations to interact with the network. They’ll use the terminal less. Senior engineers will use web-based tools, too, but they will be simulating new network designs and architectures. They will also use APIs to build custom integrations that tie the network tightly to the core business, creating a true digital differentiator. And as the landscape continues to shift and change, the value of the network engineer is higher than ever. To learn more about how you can take your networking career to the next level, explore our course on We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tWhat better place to spend the first week in June than sunny Las Vegas? InfoComm 2018 is headed to Vegas and so are we. We’re packing up our demo equipment and heading to the Las Vegas Convention Center to share more intuitive ways to work from June 6 to 8. When you’re working on something with other people, you want to be able to focus on the project – not the tools you use to communicate. Cisco Webex is a more intuitive way to work. We’ve securely combined calling, meeting, and team collaboration in the cloud. And we’ve made it so easy to use, the technology fades into the background and lets your team’s ideas come through. If you’ve ever wanted to get your hands (or fingerprints) on our video systems or check out the rest of our portfolio, here’s your chance. Check out how easy it is to use the Cisco Webex Board. Visit our booth to discover how Cisco to create the environment to innovate, exchange ideas, and get things done. And take advantage of theater presentations in our booth from Cisco experts and our partners (schedule below). Visit the Learn more about Check out the presentations in our booth theater. All times local. Topics and schedule subject to change. 10:00a Everything But the Kitchen Sink – The Many New Faces of Webex10:00a Anyone Can Use Webex Meetings10:00a Everything But the Kitchen Sink – The Many New Faces of WebexWe'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\t  CorpFlex, an SAP Service Provider with over 100 SAP clients, has enjoyed increased flexibility, reduced TCO, and a 40% performance gain from deploying on HyperFlex.  Barroso Santos, CorpFlex’s CTO, discussed the advantages of HyperFlex in a recent   Please join SAP’s EVP for Platforms, Dr. Franz Faerber, and Cisco’s VP for Cloud Solutions, Kip Compton, at their     And no mission critical application landscape is complete without considering your   Finally, as one might expect from the undisputed leader in This Sapphire week promises to be great fun for Cisco as we unveil our powerful new SAP solutions.  And befitting the home of the Magic Kingdom, we’re also entertaining our guests with some astounding magical illusions.   Come by booth #550 and prepare to be amazed. Assuming we get final approval from Legal, we might even saw somebody in half! Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tLike you, I am eagerly awaiting the There are several other Cisco Live offers a vast collection of technologies and innovations to its attendees, and I would not be able to do justice covering them all. For the remainder of this blog, I will focus on Tetration Analytics, Network Assurance Engine and Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) highlights. The logical place to start is with Cisco Exec Ishmael Limkakeng’s Innovation Talk on the Let us now segue into ACI and the Tetration Analytics and CNAE Several ACI, Tetration and CNAE breakouts feature prominently among a large collection of 1,000 plus breakout sessions this year with several experts addressing hot topics in container networking, operations, deployment, ACI App Center.   There are also demo sessions featuring Tetration and ACI eco-system partner solutions. I recommend a few PSO breakouts that I consider relevant to current Data Center trends. Daniel McGinnis, Senior Director, Data Center Marketing, is presenting a Other key business-focused PSO sessions to attend include Most of you by now will be raring to make a beeline to theThis year, we are showcasing a big collection of solution demos spanning multiple architectures including UCS, ACI, Tetration Analytics, CNAE, tech-partner ecosystem solutions, security etc. It will take me several blogs to cover them all, so I will stick to my focus areas, ACI, Tetration, CNAE and ecosystem solution demos.  Solutions from hundreds of Cisco technology partners are on display in the world of solutions.   It’s your opportunity to explore the broader Cisco partner ecosystem, find answers to specific networking challenges, and hear unique perspectives from Cisco engineers and partners. Monday through Thursday, world of solutions remains open throughout the day. Our ACI and Tetration Analytics, CNAE, ecosystem solutions and demo showcase focuses on typical customer care-abouts. The demos include ACI Anywhere, ACI Multi-site, ACI services manager integration, Tetration as a service among major ones.  Tetration is getting rave reviews with Partners and Customers and features prominently with demos on Automatic Policy Enforcement, Application segmentation and Ecosystem Partner solutions. There’s more, so please stop by our Cisco data center demo booths for a detailed engagement with one of our subject matter experts. Also, this year we’ll be premiering an “Ask me anything” session, June 13, 2.30 PM EDT, featuring ACI/Tetration/CNAE at the campus theater in world of solutions. Cisco subject matter expert Tim Stack and myself will host this session. If you have some time, please plan to attend the Cisco DC and Campus Theater presentations – it runs every 15 minutes. Many of these are condensed breakouts and cover customer top of mind topics. These short duration presentations give you an overview on key topics such as how Tetration and ACI’s open API have enabled a broad L4-L7 eco-system with Citrix, F5, Splunk, ServiceNow, Tufin, AlgoSec et al.. There are several others you can choose from in the agenda planner. I am personally leading several ACI/Tetration presentations in Partner Theaters (Citrix, Splunk, NetBrain, AlgoSec), Monday-Thursday. Check the respective Partner Theater lobby for timings and schedules. Another highlight at the WOS is The DevNet Zone, Cisco’s software developer resource and community brought to you live. This is where we help developers and network engineers innovate using Cisco technologies and platforms. I am sure most of you developers will benefit from the One of the key pillars that made Cisco ACI phenomenally successful is the Open and Secure eco-system of 65 plus leading partners that have built joint, integrated solutions with ACI.  Over past 6 months our Tetration ecosystem has grown to a significant 19+ partners and CNAE ecosystem to 10+ partners. Let me start with our strategic ACI ecosystem partner Citrix. Our Citrix-Cisco joint solution excitement awaits you in booth #2107. Citrix theme “This is how the future works” aligns well with Cisco’s theme “Imagine-Intuitive” in all their theater sessions and booth demos. Check out the latest demo on cloud orchestrator mode of deploying ACI with NetScaler. The highlight includes Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins’s visit to Citrix booth, on June 12. Besides, Cisco’s Ahmed Dessouki and I will be presenting on ACI-NetScaler topic at the Citrix Mini Theater. It is truly action unlimited at the Citrix booth during the whole event. Here are the highlights: Monday, June 11, 1.30 PM, Campus solutions theater: Completing your Digital Transformation with Smart Load Balancing, by Ashish Shah. Monday, 4.35 PM, Investments village, ACI integrated load balancing and application services for an Intent-based L2-L7 Network” by Ashish Shah. June 11 – 14: Daily demos featuring, Intent-based Application Services with ACI Integration, Cisco Tetration integration with Avi’s analytics-driven load balancing, and complementing APM from App Dynamics with App Insights from Avi. Also, we have key ecosystem partners Splunk (#1438), Turbonomic (#1243), AlgoSec (#1675), BlueCat (#1919), Tufin(#1521), Avi Networks(#2506), SevOne (#1721) and many others showcasing Networking/Analytics joint solutions with Cisco at their respective booths. Please stop at the partner pavilion to get a detailed tour. We also want you to have lots of fun amidst your busy schedule. Cisco customers will be in for a treat at the Customer Appreciation Event this year.  Universal studios Florida Theme Park  will be the setting for this spectacular celebration on With a diverse array of musical styles including country, rock, soul, and alternative it is sure to be an event you won’t want to miss. I hope you enjoy the event, and paint the town red.  And for those who are new, don’t feel overwhelmed as I have been there.  Our Cisco ambassadors will meet and greet you, and make you feel at home.  Do not hesitate to ask Cisco staff what you are looking for, and enjoy the show! We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tLike you, I am eagerly awaiting the There are several other Cisco Live offers a vast collection of technologies and innovations to its attendees, and I would not be able to do justice covering them all. For the remainder of this blog, I will focus on Tetration Analytics, Network Assurance Engine and Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) highlights. The logical place to start is with Cisco Exec Ishmael Limkakeng’s Innovation Talk on the Let us now segue into ACI and the Tetration Analytics and CNAE Several ACI, Tetration and CNAE breakouts feature prominently among a large collection of 1,000 plus breakout sessions this year with several experts addressing hot topics in container networking, operations, deployment, ACI App Center.   There are also demo sessions featuring Tetration and ACI eco-system partner solutions. I recommend a few PSO breakouts that I consider relevant to current Data Center trends. Daniel McGinnis, Senior Director, Data Center Marketing, is presenting a Other key business-focused PSO sessions to attend include Most of you by now will be raring to make a beeline to theThis year, we are showcasing a big collection of solution demos spanning multiple architectures including UCS, ACI, Tetration Analytics, CNAE, tech-partner ecosystem solutions, security etc. It will take me several blogs to cover them all, so I will stick to my focus areas, ACI, Tetration, CNAE and ecosystem solution demos.  Solutions from hundreds of Cisco technology partners are on display in the world of solutions.   It’s your opportunity to explore the broader Cisco partner ecosystem, find answers to specific networking challenges, and hear unique perspectives from Cisco engineers and partners. Monday through Thursday, world of solutions remains open throughout the day. Our ACI and Tetration Analytics, CNAE, ecosystem solutions and demo showcase focuses on typical customer care-abouts. The demos include ACI Anywhere, ACI Multi-site, ACI services manager integration, Tetration as a service among major ones.  Tetration is getting rave reviews with Partners and Customers and features prominently with demos on Automatic Policy Enforcement, Application segmentation and Ecosystem Partner solutions. There’s more, so please stop by our Cisco data center demo booths for a detailed engagement with one of our subject matter experts. Also, this year we’ll be premiering an “Ask me anything” session, June 13, 2.30 PM EDT, featuring ACI/Tetration/CNAE at the campus theater in world of solutions. Cisco subject matter expert Tim Stack and myself will host this session. If you have some time, please plan to attend the Cisco DC and Campus Theater presentations – it runs every 15 minutes. Many of these are condensed breakouts and cover customer top of mind topics. These short duration presentations give you an overview on key topics such as how Tetration and ACI’s open API have enabled a broad L4-L7 eco-system with Citrix, F5, Splunk, ServiceNow, Tufin, AlgoSec et al.. There are several others you can choose from in the agenda planner. I am personally leading several ACI/Tetration presentations in Partner Theaters (Citrix, Splunk, NetBrain, AlgoSec), Monday-Thursday. Check the respective Partner Theater lobby for timings and schedules. Another highlight at the WOS is The DevNet Zone, Cisco’s software developer resource and community brought to you live. This is where we help developers and network engineers innovate using Cisco technologies and platforms. I am sure most of you developers will benefit from the One of the key pillars that made Cisco ACI phenomenally successful is the Open and Secure eco-system of 65 plus leading partners that have built joint, integrated solutions with ACI.  Over past 6 months our Tetration ecosystem has grown to a significant 19+ partners and CNAE ecosystem to 10+ partners. Let me start with our strategic ACI ecosystem partner Citrix. Our Citrix-Cisco joint solution excitement awaits you in booth #2107. Citrix theme “This is how the future works” aligns well with Cisco’s theme “Imagine-Intuitive” in all their theater sessions and booth demos. Check out the latest demo on cloud orchestrator mode of deploying ACI with NetScaler. The highlight includes Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins’s visit to Citrix booth, on June 12. Besides, Cisco’s Ahmed Dessouki and I will be presenting on ACI-NetScaler topic at the Citrix Mini Theater. It is truly action unlimited at the Citrix booth during the whole event. Here are the highlights: Monday, June 11, 1.30 PM, Campus solutions theater: Completing your Digital Transformation with Smart Load Balancing, by Ashish Shah. Monday, 4.35 PM, Investments village, ACI integrated load balancing and application services for an Intent-based L2-L7 Network” by Ashish Shah. June 11 – 14: Daily demos featuring, Intent-based Application Services with ACI Integration, Cisco Tetration integration with Avi’s analytics-driven load balancing, and complementing APM from App Dynamics with App Insights from Avi. Also, we have key ecosystem partners Splunk (#1438), Turbonomic (#1243), AlgoSec (#1675), BlueCat (#1919), Tufin(#1521), Avi Networks(#2506), SevOne (#1721) and many others showcasing Networking/Analytics joint solutions with Cisco at their respective booths. Please stop at the partner pavilion to get a detailed tour. We also want you to have lots of fun amidst your busy schedule. Cisco customers will be in for a treat at the Customer Appreciation Event this year.  Universal studios Florida Theme Park  will be the setting for this spectacular celebration on With a diverse array of musical styles including country, rock, soul, and alternative it is sure to be an event you won’t want to miss. I hope you enjoy the event, and paint the town red.  And for those who are new, don’t feel overwhelmed as I have been there.  Our Cisco ambassadors will meet and greet you, and make you feel at home.  Do not hesitate to ask Cisco staff what you are looking for, and enjoy the show!   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join Who doesn’t love a good motorcycle racing game, right? How about one easily available on Google Play, a “safe” place for all your Android app desires? How about a bike racing game that sticks with you so much, you can’t easily uninstall it? And it displays hidden ads? Wait, what!? That’s right! In the slideshow below, a game titled This slideshow requires JavaScript. So how does one get into such a predicament? That all starts with the install process. Upon installing Okay, so obviously a bike racing game requesting device administrator rights with permission to After the initial weirdness of asking for heightened privileges, the app does open and run as advertised. This slideshow requires JavaScript. Don’t expect the game to perform well, though. It runs so slow and choppy, it makes for an unpleasant experience. This is because it’s doing something much more malicious in the background. After the first time the device’s screen is locked/unlocked, it becomes clear why This slideshow requires JavaScript. At this point, any user would be ready to ditch this two-wheeled game. However, if the game was given device administrator rights, this isn’t as straightforward as simply dragging the icon to However, you can also uninstall the app manually. Let’s start with dragging the icon to Make sure to note the “Next, select Click the Here’s an extra reminder, as this is the tricky part: Anytime you need to uninstall an app manually, you’re looking for the app name listed after the colon from first warning pop-up: Back to uninstalling the app. After you select the check mark, you’ll get to this screen. Click “After device administrator rights are revoked, once again drag the icon to Even when installing apps from reputable sources like Google Play, be careful when you grant device administrator rights. Although there are times when it’s appropriate to grant such rights to an app, make sure the rights line up with the functionality of the app. Giving device administrator rights to a respectable security app in order to remediate ransomware makes sense. A bike racing game needn’t be given the same rights. Why would they need to lock your screen? With a little scrutiny and a lot of paying attention to the fine print, you can protect yourself from malicious apps that slip by Google Play’s security parameters. Stay safe out there!  \t\t\t  From supporting soldiers in the battlefield or first responders at a disaster scene, to maintaining high-value infrastructure, access to highly secure broadband for voice, video, and data communications is critical. And since disaster can strike in some of the world’s most inhospitable and remote places, lives often depend on communication equipment operating in hostile environments. These applications require highly specialized solutions. For example, forward-deployed military vehicular units require compact, light-weight, self-powered, man-portable, communication modules. In addition, these modules must be rugged, quickly and easily mounted, and set up to provide reliable connectivity to military personnel groups of various sizes. Off-the-shelf switches simply do not meet all of these needs. With this in mind, at the Samuel Pasquier, Director, Product Management, Industrial IoT Networking at Cisco had this to say after returning from the conference: Using the Matthew Ratnesar, Senior Director, Product Line Management and Solutions at Cubic Mission Systems offered this assessment: When you have to carry communications gear on your back, you want it to be small, light, and ready to operate in any environment. In addition to mobility, you need all the right ports and a ruggedness that protects it from heat, shocks and vibrations, and tampering. Of course, the last thing you need is a power hog. With the Frank Murray, the CTO of Klas Telecom, had this to say about the As Charlie Kawasaki, Chief Technical Officer of PacStar noted: Lynn Bamford, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Defense Solutions division of Curtiss-Wright added: The compact size and low power characteristics of Oil and gas companies operate in some pretty remote places, and require reliable networks to ensure safety, higher efficiency and investment protection of high-value assets. Communication gear in these applications require reduced SWaP, ability to operate in extreme temperatures, tolerance to shock and vibration and ingress protection. Cisco partners and integrators can develop switches leveraging While demands may differ in the field of transportation – automotive, rail or aviation, they are no less important. From surveillance and security, to advanced telematics, vehicles in motion need access to connected services. The compact size, board configuration options, 1G/10G capabilities, and optimized power consumption are just a few of the advantages of our embedded networking portfolio. The With the   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tAutomation. Predictive services. Security. It seems like almost every customer I meet in the Americas wants to use automation to reduce costs and increase agility. Or they see If you join me at the Services PSO sessions, you’ll hear about all three of these topics, including a case study about   Of course, none of these offers matter if customers aren’t using them to their full potential. That’s why I am most excited about the way we onboard customers and help them adopt the technologies they buy. Technical Support Manager Tony Soares is going to deliver a campus theatre session you won’t want to miss. Tony will explain how Technical Onboarding  Adoption can help you   Cisco Live US runs from June 10  Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tWhat is great about Cisco Webex Teams is that I can start working on the desktop client and pick up where I left off when I go mobile via my iOS or Android client. Since both the desktop and mobile clients support notifications, I never have to worry about receiving an important message from a team that I’m collaborating with. In addition to these benefits, there are a number of API’s that allow you to create Recently I’ve had the opportunity to get to work with the powerful tools that This opens up a variety of use cases where we can take advantage of the Webex Teams API’s to do really cool things! For example, we could Let’s get started! I already have AppD monitoring a couple of my own Webex Teams Bots, so let’s setup App Dynamics and a Webex Teams Bot to do the following in case a server I’m monitoring restarts. Here is a high level view of the architecture. When AppD discovers a restart, I would like the following to happen: Here is a high-level view of the call flow. AppDynamics/Triage WebEx Teams Bot High Level Call Flow    In order for the monitor and alert functionality to work on AppDynamics, you need to create a Policy that defines the criteria that you want to monitor and the action that you want to take. In order to do this, log into your controller and click the “Alert  Respond” Tab. Once you are on the “Alert  Respond” Tab, you will want to choose your application from the drop down menu and then click “Policies”. This will take you to a list where you can edit, delete and create new policies. Path to creating your Alert and Respond Policy for your application workflow.  If you have not already done so, create/add a policy. The monitoring criteria can be performance metrics, health rules related to business transaction performance or specific events like a server restart. It can really be anything you like. For example, say some of your business transactions start slowing down to unacceptable level. Trigger the alert! For the sake of simplicity, I’ve decided to go with a simple server restart. In order to take action with an HTTP Request, we first have to define an HTTP Request Template. With the policy and HTTP Request defined for our case, when a server that we are monitoring restarts, the AppD controller will fire an HTTP Request to our AppD Triage Bot. Creating an HTTP Request Template is fairly straight forward and I’d recommend checking out the documentation for a quick primer. The main things you will need to fill out in the form includes: It is this HTTP Request Payload that we need to customize that will allow us to really differentiate our bot and provide a lot of context to our Webex Teams triage space. The body will be a JSON dictionary that will contain two arrays, defined in the following way: The team members are pretty easily populated, but how do we get events? Well, fortunately, the gurus at AppD allow scripting of the here is the JSON body snippet for the payload template: Let’s break it down. The first dictionary entry, When the HTTP Request is fired, the JSON body looks something like this: The resulting JSON body looks like this: Now that we have created the HTTP Template, we need to go back into the Policy we created and assign an action. So go back, edit your policy, select “Actions” and then add the newly created HTTP Template. Adding an action to our newly created policy.    Now let’s look at the Triage Bot code. It is a simple Python based Flask application that takes the request, parses the JSON payload, and creates the Webex Teams space. So let’s break down the code. The first part is standard pretty simple. We take the HTTP request, verify it’s coming from our AppD controller via a token embedded in the request and then fire a function, build_triage_room, that takes the request payload and builds the space. We will do the following: Now let’s take a look at how we do this in code: Here is a screenshot of the finished product! Newly created Triage Webex Teams space. Note the hyperlink which will take the team members directly to the issue within AppDynamics.  So, to wrap up, we took two different Cisco products and tied them together to make something greater than the sum of their parts. We utilized AppDynamics alerting and monitoring functionality to trigger a Cisco Webex Teams Bot to: Hopefully you can see the possibilities that leveraging the AppD functionality and Cisco Webex Teams API’s allow. The code for the bot can be found on the Good Luck!  Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tTalos is disclosing a denial-of-service vulnerability in the Ocularis Recorder. Ocularis is a video management software (VMS) platform used in a variety of settings, from convenience stores, to city-wide deployments. An attacker can trigger this vulnerability by crafting a malicious network packet that causes a process to terminate, resulting in a denial of service. We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tOrganizations today need to be both nimble and secure. They’re adopting Cloud, IoT, and machine learning at increasingly quickening speed as well as evolving their applications and endpoints as well as campus, data center, and WAN networking to adapt to their digital business as well as address security risks. At the same time that compliance regimes are a moving target putting increasing pressure on organizations. In this ever changing world, many organizations struggle with maintaining good security and compliance hygiene. Year over year, IT departments attempt to manage through compliance drift as networks evolve, new systems are added, configuration changes are made, and knowledgeable individuals leave their teams. Poor audit management practices increase audit fatigue and risk even higher rates of attrition. Add requirements for risk assessments, penetration tests, privacy impact assessments, and robust processes; not to mention the pressures of being able to identify and respond to an evolving security threat landscape and the operational pressures, including OpEx spending, can be immense. Fortunately, Cisco Business Critical Services can help our customers Business Critical Services is the next generation of subscription based Business Critical Services includes a wealth of offers, or deliverables, which help customers reduce compliance drift, decrease operational churn, and drive increased compliance fidelity regardless of the compliance requirement. From automated compliance hygiene to Privacy Impact Analysis, Business Critical Services enables customers to right size a solution that meets most compliance requirements they face. For example, a customer that must be compliant to the Payment Card Industry – Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) may choose to take advantage of the following In addition, Taken together, this robust set of subscription based offers within Business Critical Services can help customers address both the most mundane and repetitive, but critical, security tasks, drive security improvement through assessments and training, and both set and help execute strategic security direction at our customers. I can’t think of any other security company on the planet that can match this comprehensive set of security and threat management services and deliver them under an If you’re attending Check out our Business Critical Services and Incident Response demos, talk to experts at the World of Solutions and attend a solution briefing entitled,                 Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tNetwork technologies have evolved rapidly, providing users with higher bandwidth, faster big data analytics, and service offerings, but 5G will be different. 5G disruptions to industries will be massive, bringing about the increased deployment of machine-to-machine (M2M) communications and Internet of Things (IoT) applications. The growth of 5G-enabled services for different industry verticals means service providers will need to look into how their network architecture can meet 5G requirements to capture these new business opportunities. We believe that using Network Functions Virtualization (NFV) and Software-Defined Networking (SDN) to implement control and user plane separation can enable scalability and flexibility of network configurations for 5G requirements. In addition, it also provides ease-of-operation for future services through network automation. There are three categories of 5G use cases : Each service has unique requirements for its applications that it mandates to the transport infrastructure. For example, eMBB requires high bandwidth and relaxed latency; mMTC requires low bandwidth and massive connection scale; and uRLLC requires high bandwidth, ultra-reliability, and ultra-low latency. Cisco 5G Innovation uses the network in a programmable-manner to remain relevant to these applications. As governments around the world invest in smart cities development, 5G uRLLC and mMTC will play a major role in autonomous vehicles and smart transportation and homes, connecting billions of IP-based devices. While 5G’s uRLLC and eMBB  is expected to be key for sophisticated healthcare services like remote surgery. Cisco is working with Hyundai to develop a hyper-connected intelligent car. A configurable and secure platform set up within the car using Software Defined Vehicle (SDV) architecture and end-to-end networking, including tactile internet. The new platform will enable new, high-speed services through an integration layer between software 5G’s reliability and ultra-low latency intervals can help improve the quality of healthcare. It can boost the capability of robots to learn to recognize new objects and perform complex tasks by leveraging on tactile internet, the encoding of physical interaction. The number of use cases for 5G is growing and we have a comprehensive suite of offerings ready to help: The number of internet connected devices is expected to connect more than 27.1 billion    Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tCisco Live in Orlando next week will be an exciting time that will include new product announcements, but as a preview, I wanted to share a demo I’ve been working on with my friends in Enterprise Networking that involves the intersection of serverless and edge computing: We’re looking for pilot customers in this area, so come see us at the Innovation Forum to check out Function Router! Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join  \t\t\tImplementing the best of breed of Cisco technology is exciting. At Cisco Live, I’m sure you will feel this excitement and be energized by all the innovation surrounding you. You will make investment decisions, you will implement the technology, integrate it with what is already running, and you will be looking for proof of how the technology not just supports but directly drives your business growth. With ever increasing network complexity and ever increasing threats, mitigating the risk of a ‘network down’ scenario is paramount. Today, like any other day, over 5000 TAC engineers are engaging with customers to solve their most complex network issues. At a scale of over 2 million engagements per year and across all technologies, serving more than 200,000 customers. The breadth and depth of knowledge accumulated during the 30 years that TAC is operating is unparalleled in the industry. The And yet your expectations as customers are changing.  You not only expect stellar service when something breaks but also you wantus to help prevent issues from happening in the first place and to mitigate any potential risk.  You expect proactive and effortless engagements.  To be called instead of needing to call when you need help.  You expect us to share our knowledge, to make it actionable and relevant for your network, to infuse this knowledge in your workflows, to automate where possible, and when you still need to talk to a person make this extremely easy. We listened and created a strategy to deliver on this mission:  Your network should never be impacted by an issue we know about or can predict. Our wealth of knowledge is being digitized at an accelerated pace and we use it to automate, augment and act. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning run on top of data we have access to, let us predict anomalies and gives us a way to let you benefit even more from what we analyze across our customer base. Continuously refined, continuously refreshed. TAC is focusing its innovation on your changing reality and expectations. We talk to you every day, so we know what you are looking for: automation, augmentation and proactive, effortless action, delivered at scale. During a PSO session on Wednesday, I’ll talk more about this and show you an automated diagnostics and remediation system being piloted in the market today. You can I’m looking forward to the dialogue!   Tags:We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join There are two kinds of spam associated with social media. There are spam ads that actually live on social media, and there is spam that comes in your inbox, courtesy of social media. Both thrive by using data from your social media accounts. But how do spammers know how to target you and send you the mails that you are most likely to click on? There is a real chance that you revealed that information yourself. To understand the relationship between the spam you get in your mailbox, your social media presence, and the ways that criminals try to scam users, you must first understand a few basic principles about how advertising works on social media. First of all, let’s differentiate between the spam we see on social media and the spam that we get in the mail, but has a relationship with what we interact with on social media. Spam that we see on social media is called This is the foundation of what people perceive as “Facebook and Google knowing about every search I do and every article I read.” If you are interested in limiting the number of personalized ads you see on social media, Google offers an opt-out of interest-based Google ads in There are several different options for opting out of interest-based advertising. For example, if you do not want to see any advertisements on the sites you visit, you should look into installing an adblocker. Keep in mind that many sites can only stay in business because they are funded by advertising—that doesn’t mean they have the right to invade your privacy, though. If you are a Facebook user and wondering whether it pays off to log off after every session, according to Facebook, it does. Logging off But that is not the only way companies utilize social media for targeted advertising. The Facebook pixel is another marketing tool. A pixel is a tiny object that can be placed on websites that use re-marketing based on which other sites their visitors have looked at. To the visitor these pixels are invisible, unless they have an anti-tracking tool installed. If the visitor is considered interesting enough for the websites’ company, a targeted advertisement will be placed on the visitors’ Facebook page. This is why you will regularly see advertisements from companies whose website you have visited recently. For the webmaster, the pixel offers a lot more perks, but for the visitor it simply means more data mining is taking place. Every site (including our own) that has buttons to share or promote an article on social media does send information about you to their respective owners (again, unless you are using an anti-tracking solution). Based on what articles you share, like, or otherwise engage with, social media networks can spot patterns and recognize your interests. While interest-based advertising is something we have learned to cope with, even though it may seem scary how much “they” know about us, it is far less dangerous than the spam you may receive based on your online behavior. Why? Let’s dive in. While the huge, blanket spam campaigns that ensnare millions of email addresses still exist, todays A successful, targeted spam email trumps an annoying breach of trust that still delivers mostly legitimate ads. All it takes is one email to fake out an unsuspecting user into providing their own crucial information to criminals, who can then infect your computer, steal your data, or simply spy on you. But it’s got to be pretty difficult to get that information from users, right? Providing spammers with the knowledge to scam you more effectively is probably not what you had in mind when you joined your social media network(s). But of course, we never reveal sensitive, personal information on our social media accounts. Or do we? If some scammer had the email associated with this Twitter account, they could pull off a real convincing scam attempt. And if you are the intended target, the threat actors It is actually terrifying to know how the tiniest amount of information in the wrong hands can have a devastating impact on your life. There are two main categories of fraudulent spam: fake login requests and the Nigerian Prince variety. The first category can be very convincing, especially if the emails seem to come from your actual bank. But if your bank sends out emails soliciting login credentials, I would advise switching to another bank (because they shouldn’t be doing that). The emails themselves will have convincing logos and even appear to come from email addresses belonging to the bank or a credit card provider. And the websites they send you to are exact copies (content wise) of the real one, even including a Before you check any such mail, remember that your bank should never send you such an email in the first place. But if you look for these signs, you will see right through them. And the signs apply to many other cases like Netflix or iTunes scams. Ways to spot a targeted spam campaign include: These started out as ridiculous messages from a Nigerian prince who claimed, “We have a huge amount of money waiting for you here in a strange and far away country, and all we need from you is a little payment and some information to transfer it into your bank account.” Users duped by this scam would never see their original payment back, let alone the huge amount of cash promised to them. This type of scam has evolved to into many different stories and is nowadays also used to recruit And, guess what? You don’t need a computer or email to get scammed either. It only takes a little bit of information, a good story, and a friendly victim to get scammed. A woman gets a text from her brother telling her he has a new phone number, but now he can’t log in to his bank, and he needs to make an urgent payment. Can she do it for him? He’ll pay her back as soon as he has everything sorted. The message has her brother’s avatar and the story seems plausible. Not everyone will fall for this, but probably enough to make it worth trying. You don’t need to do much digging on someone’s Facebook profile to gather everything you need to spam and scam victims. As much as it may pain you, don’t be that friendly person. In the last scenario, you should tell your brother to call you. That isn’t too much to ask if he needs your help that urgently, is it? And dump those scammy emails in the trash where they belong. Should you ever really be in doubt whether some email actually came from your bank, they won’t mind if you call them to verify that information. In fact, they will be glad that you were so cautious. Now if only we could get everyone to be more cautious about what they share on social media. Stay safe! 