---
layout: post
title: Flying drones near wildfires could kill people: Don't do it
date: 2018-08-12 11:02:14
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/flying-drones-near-wildfires-could-kill-people-dont-do-it/
tags: [Regulations,Law]
---
Smoke from devastating wildfires is And drone pilots are getting in the way.Yesterday, Their warning is: If you're caught getting in the way of firefighting operations, Let's deconstruct this for a moment. What's really going on?Firefighting, especially with these huge wildfires, is being fought with a lot more than a bunch of hook and ladder trucks. In fact, pretty much the only way to battle fires across so many acres is to do so from the air.The problem is that drones are getting in the way. If a Even worse, if the airplane and helicopter pilots don't know there's a drone in their flightpath, a collision could occur. The result is horrifying on a variety of levels.An impact could send a full-sized aircraft out of control, cause it to crash, kill, or cause harm to people in the path on the ground, and possibly kill or injure the aircrews. And that's on top of not only delaying fire suppression activities, but now having a new The FAA often issues Look, I could belabor the point with examples and rules and regulations, but it's not necessary here. Just follow this guideline: If you're anywhere near a fire, don't fly. If you're launching your drone so you can see the fire in the distance, don't fly. In fact, By the way, this also applies to drones people might consider toys. Even if it's a cheap toy you or your kid is playing with, if it can go up in the air, it can get in the way. Keep it on the ground.Don’t want your drone fleet to be grounded? Read this article to learn how to register your drones. Yes, it’s the law. Again. tThis is one of those areas where there are unexpected ripple effects from the introduction of a new technology to society. tDrones are amazing. In the hands of just a few early adopters, they've been just another fringe technology. But because drones have jumped the adoption curve and millions of people now own thesetWhile drones provide great value for filmmakers, hobbyists, farmers, and other vertical industries, the foolish or intrusive use of these aircraft will be an ongoing challenge. tJust as the car changed the landscape of the country, adding wide strips of pavement crossing the entire continent, so too will the prevalence of drones and automated flying systems. tStay tuned. Whether or not someday soon the skies gett