---
layout: post
title: The iPhone doesn't spy on users, Apple tells US lawmakers
date: 2018-08-08 13:02:11
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/the-iphone-doesnt-spy-on-users-apple-tells-us-lawmakers/
tags: [Attack]
---
 tApple has stressed the measures it takes to protect iPhone users' privacy in response to questions by US lawmakers.Apple rushed the release of iOS 7.0.6 on Friday with a patch for a shockingly overlooked SSL encryption issue that leaves iPhone, iPad and Mac computer users open to a man-in-the-middle (MITM) attack.tThe questions were partly prompted by a tightening oftApple made the changes in the wake of the controversy over misuse of Facebook data by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica. In the days following the scandal, Apple CEO Tim Cook madetHowever, due to Apple changing its rules for app developers, members of the U.S. House Committee on Energy and CommercetThe committee also sent atMacRumorstThe letter, as Cook has done many times before, aims to distance Apple's business model from other large tech companies accused of mass data collection, adding that "the customer is not our product" --tA section reads: "We believe privacy is a fundamental human right and purposely design our products and services to minimize our collection of customer data. When we do collect data, we're transparent about it and work to disassociate it from the user. We utilize on device processing to minimize data collection by Apple. The customer is not our product, and our business model does not depend on collecting vast amounts of personally identifiable information to enrich targeted profiles marketed to advertisers." tThe letter also contains Apple's response to the committee's 16 questions. tAs Reuterst tIf you installed a Facebook app to your Android smartphone, odds are good that Facebook has been logging your phone calls and text message data ever since. t tFacebook in 2016 asked the analytics firm to delete the data collected from 50 million profiles, but Facebook never verified the company's response. t tAfter several days of silence, the Facebook founder and CEO calls the incident a "breach of trust. t tA data analytics firm used by Donald Trump's campaign during the 2016 presidential election collected data on millions of Facebook accounts to predict how people will vote at the ballot box. t tFacebook's CEO says that he's sorry about the Cambridge Analytica scandal affecting "tens of millions" and that he'd be willing to testify before Congress. t tThe controversial data company's product lead spoke to TechRepublic to clarify the firm's role on the Trump campaign and outline a vision for the future of enterprise analytics.