---
layout: post
title: WhatsApp launches Facebook chat ads and Business API for automated messaging with customers
date: 2018-08-01 01:02:11
tourl: https://venturebeat.com/2018/08/01/whatsapp-launches-facebook-chat-ads-and-business-api-for-automated-messaging-with-customers/
tags: [WhatsApp]
---
Above: A man uses WhatsApp on his cell phone at home in Mumbai, India.WhatsApp today announced the launch of the Business API, which allows large businesses to manage and send non-promotional messages to customers — like appointment reminders, shipping info, or event tickets — for a fixed rate. A company spokesperson declined to share the price.Some messages, like flight updates or purchase receipts, will likely be sent automatically, a company spokesperson told VentureBeat in an email. WhatsApp’s Business API is initially being made available to just 90 companies, including Uber, Messages may only be sent to customers who have shared their phone number with a business or who have initiated a conversation with a business. Businesses using the API will be able to respond to messages within 24 hours for free. All messages sent after that will come with a charged fee.Also announced today: Advertisers will soon be able to use the Facebook Ads Manager to add a click-to-chat button to Facebook advertisements.Experiments that allow Facebook users to add a button to a post that invites people to chat on WhatsApp The monetization performance of WhatsApp and the wider family of Facebook apps is being closely watched, following a historic earnings announcement last week. Reported revenue of $13.2 billion fell just below analyst expectations, but news of the loss of 3 million daily active users in Europe last week combined with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg have Click-to-WhatsApp ads will be available in most countries around the world later this month, a company spokesperson told VentureBeat in an email, but will not be made available in India or the European Union.The standalone WhatsApp Business was first made available in January. By April, CEO Mark Zuckerberg reported that The advancement of WhatsApp Business follows several other initiatives aimed at using automated messaging and AI to change communication between customers and businesses. Google is using Ads you can speak with and the Business API are the latest in a rush of changes WhatsApp has made in recent months.Changes have also been made to The flurry of changes has been largely made in the absence of WhatsApp’s cofounders. Cofounder 