title:CSS Is So Overpowered It Can Deanonymize Facebook Users
date:2018-05-31 14:15:28
tourl:https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/css-is-so-overpowered-it-can-deanonymize-facebook-users/
tags:[attack,GDPR,regulations,China,law,DNS,act,bill,hack,AWS,exploit,Exploitation,FIREEYE,Department of Homeland Security]
Hackers have come up with a never-before-seen method of installing backdoored plugins on websites running the open-source WordPress CMS, and this new technique relies on using weakly protected WordPress.com accounts and the Jetpack plugin. The technique is highly complex, and to compromise a site, a hacker must go through different steps, during which multiple things can prevent the attack from being successful. Nevertheless, attacks have been happening since May 16, according to The first step of this attack consists of hackers taking usernames and passwords from public breaches and attempting to log into WordPress.com accounts. Users who reused passwords across accounts and who did not enable two-factor authentication for their profiles are susceptible to these account take-over attempts. To be clear, WordPress.com accounts are used to manage professional blogs hosted by Automattic, and are different from both WordPress.org accounts and admin accounts for self-hosted WordPress sites that based on the open-source CMS. While the WordPress open-source CMS is managed by the WordPress community, lots of Automattic developers contribute to the open-source project and have always had a big influence and close ties to the open-source CMS. This is why, a few years back, Automattic took the analytics plugin used on WordPress.com and released it as an open-source plugin for self-hosted WordPress sites. In time, this analytics module —named One of the plugin's features is the ability to connect self-hosted WordPress sites to a WordPress.com account and use the Jetpack panel inside the WordPress.com dashboard to manage tens or thousands of self-hosted WordPress sites via the Jetpack plugin installed on each site. One of the options Jetpack provides is the ability to install plugins across different sites from the WordPress.com Jetpack dashboard. The plugin doesn't even have to be hosted or hidden on the official WordPress.org repository, and attackers can easily upload a ZIP file with the malicious code that then gets sent to each site. According to Wordfence, hackers who've been taking over WordPress.com accounts and finding linked WordPress self-hosted sites have been abusing this remote management feature to deploy backdoored plugins across previously secured sites. Experts say that attacks started on May 16, with the hackers deploying a plugin named \"pluginsamonsters,\" later switching to another plugin named \"wpsmilepack\" on May 21. The number of compromised sites is unknown, and detecting compromised sites is also difficult. \"The plugin is visible on the WordPress.com dashboard but is invisible on the target WordPress site's plugin list when active,\" the Wordfence team said. For now, hackers have been using these backdoors to redirect users to spam and tech support scams. Owners of self-hosted sites that have connected their Jetpack plugin with a WordPress.com account are encouraged to review the plugins they have deployed across self-hosted sites inside the WordPress.com dashboard. If they find suspicious plugins, they should immediately change their WordPress.com account password, enable two-factor authentication for the account, and initiate site-cleaning procedures. Wordfence said that the threat actor behind this new site hijacking technique has targeted self-hosted WordPress sites before. In February of this year, they used a technique called \"credential stuffing\" —using leaked username  password combos— in attempts to guess the credentials of admin accounts and hijacked WordPress self-hosted sites directly at the source. A hacker found a way around a previous patch in the Verge cryptocurrency source code and took advantage of the flaw to monopolize mining operations and create Verge coins (XVG) at a rapid pace. The attack took place on Tuesday, May 22 [Users who looked into the attack's aftermath believe the hacker mined over 35 million XVG coins in just a few hours for a profit of $1.65 million. The incident is eerily similar to another attack that took place Following the April attack, the Verge development team hard-forked the entire cryptocurrency's source code to patch the flaw exploited by the attacker and reverse his gains. But according to several users knowledgeable of the Verge source code, the attacker found a way around the hard-fork's patch and launched a similar attack. \"Since nothing really was done about the previous attacks (only a band-aid), the attackers now simply use two algos to fork the chain for their own use and are gaining millions,\" The Verge dev team didn't appear to recognize the attack, in the beginning, calling it a DDoS on mining pools. it appears some mining pools are under ddos attack, and we are experiencing a delay in our blocks, we are working to resolve this. — vergecurrency (@vergecurrency) Nonetheless, once it became clear what was going on, developers started working on a patch once more. It is unclear if the Verge team plans to hard-fork the cryptocurrency's source code to reverse the effects of the illegal mining like it did in April. Small update about the 51% attack today. Developer is working on a patch. But something more awsome to look forward to is we will have a complete new codebase soon!!Just like in April, no XVG coins were stolen from users' accounts, but the attack did invalidate legitimate mining operations and crashed Verge's price by 10% due to news about the attack and the creation of a large pot of new coins. An unidentified hacker has mounted several \"double spend\" attacks on the infrastructure of the Bitcoin Gold cryptocurrency and has managed to amass over $18 million worth of BTG (Bitcoin Gold) coins in the process. According to a The attacker has been deploying a large number of servers to take control of more than half of the Bitcoin Gold's network hashrate in what's known as a \"51% attack.\" This grants the attacker the ability to modify details of blockchain transactions, an ability he's been using in the last few days to perform a second attack called \"double spend,\" which as the name implies, allows him to spend the same amount of coins twice. According to the Bitcoin Gold team, this attacker has been using this combination of a 51% and double-spend attack to defraud cryptocurrency exchange services. \"The cost of mounting an ongoing attack is high. Because the cost is high, the attacker can only profit if they can quickly get something of high value from a fake deposit,\" the Bitcoin Gold team explained. \"A party like an Exchange may accept large deposits automatically, allow the user to trade into a different coin quickly, and then withdraw automatically. This is why they are targeting Exchanges.\" For the last few days, the attacker has been doing just this. He's been depositing large amounts of BTG coins at exchanges, but also sending the same funds to his own wallet. By the time exchanges realize the blockchain has been tampered with and that the transaction is invalid, the hacker has already withdrawn funds from the exchange and doubled his original funds. To counteract attacks, exchanges have been raising the threshold needed to confirm a BTG transaction in the past few days, but the hacker has continued to deploy more and more mining power to take over more than half of the Bitcoin Gold network and carry out the double-spend attack anyway. The Bitcoin Gold team says it tracked the funds stolen from exchanges to a BTG address located at More than 388,000 BTG coins have passed through this account, suggesting the hacker has made over $18 million from his attacks. To be clear, the hacker hasn't been stealing money from users, but from the exchanges. While no user has lost money, the attacks are still dangerous because they might destabilize an exchange's backup funds, or may lead to its insolvency, which in turn may prevent users from withdrawing funds. Users may not be losing money right now, but if the attacks continue, some exchanges may go bankrupt and won't be able to refund users still keeping funds with the exchange. According to one of the exchange portals who collaborated with the Bitcoin Gold team to get to the bottom of these attacks, they also believe the person/group behind this past week's events has also attempted the same attack on the original Bitcoin network in the past. Bitcoin Gold is a very popular cryptocurrency created by forking the original Bitcoin currency in November 2017, currently ranked #27 based on total market cap. The US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has obtained court orders and has taken control of the command and control servers of a massive botnet of over 500,000 devices, known as the VPNFilter botnet. The existence of this massive threat Cisco said the botnet appeared to be preparing for an attack on Ukraine, as the botnet's operators were working hard to infect as many devices as possible within the country. The Ukrainian Secret Service The FBI confirmed that the botnet has been created and was under the control of a famous Russian cyber-espionage unit known under different names, such as APT28, Sednit, Fancy Bear, Pawn Storm, Sofacy, Grizzly Steppe, STRONTIUM, Tsar Team, and others. A This group has been behind several cyber-attacks aimed at Ukraine in the past, such as Security experts deemed the VPFilter botnet incredibly dangerous, not only because it was the work of a nation-state cyber group with nefarious reasons, but because it also included functions to intercept network traffic, search for SCADA equipment, and wipe firmware to temporarily brick devices. With such powerful capabilities, and with devices infected all over the world, US authorities stepped in to prevent further damage from this threat. Hours after the publication of the Cisco report, the FBI had obtained a With the domain firmly in its grasp, the FBI is now asking users across the world who own affected routers and NAS devices to reset their equipment. The reasoning, according to the FBI, is to make these devices reconnect to the command and control server, giving the FBI a full insight into the botnet's real size. The FBI plans to use this knowledge to create a list of vulnerable devices and notify ISPs, private and public sector partners that can deal with the infected devices. Owners of the following types of devices are vulnerable to the VPNFilter malware, and should reboot their devices, based on the FBI's advice: Microsoft said this week it plans to extend and enforce the new GDPR privacy protections to all of its customers, not just those based in EU countries. \"We will extend the rights that are at the heart of GDPR to all of our consumer customers worldwide,\" said Julie Brill, Corporate Vice President and Deputy General Counsel for Microsoft, in a statement on Monday. \"Known as Data Subject Rights, they include the right to know what data we collect about you, to correct that data, to delete it and even to take it somewhere else,\" Brill said. Users can find these new controls for managing their data in every Microsoft account dashboard, in the Microsoft has also updated its privacy statement for all users to reflect the addition of the GDPR-compatible rules. Changes to the The Windows OS maker has also launched a portal at GDPR stands for General Data Protection Regulation and is a new user and data privacy regulation slated to come into effect in the EU tomorrow, May 25, 2018 The new regulation brings a wealth of protections to user privacy but is a nightmare for companies doing business in Europe. Some companies not willing to deal with the GDPR compliance headache, have been blocking access to their services for EU users Others are officially shutting down service for EU users altogether. Examples include Verve (online marketing), Ragnarok Online (online game), Super Monday Night Combat (online game), Unroll (email subscription service), Brent Ozar Unlimited (software supplier), Tungle (gaming software provider), and Drawbridge (cross-device identity service). Microsoft is the first tech giant that decides to take a different approach and extend GDPR to all users, instead of finding loopholes to skirt privacy protection regulations —Mozilla developers are working on an improved Tracking Protection system for the Firefox browser that will land in version 63, scheduled for release in mid-October. Tracking Protection is a feature that blocks Firefox from loading scripts from abusive trackers. It was first launched with Firefox's Private Browsing mode a few years back, But Tracking Protection is not enabled by default, and to enable the protection for normal browsing sessions, users must visit Firefox's Settings  Privacy section, and press an on/off button. Firefox Tracking Protection makes the web a joy to use again. It makes pages load super-fast. It blocks the most annoying ads. And it gives me the piece of mind that I'm not being tracked as I surf the web. Enable it today in Firefox Options/Preferences/Settings — Asa Dotzler (@asadotzler) Because it's buried deep in Firefox's settings, very few people even know it exists, let alone that they can use it outside of Private Browsing windows. To promote this feature with users, Mozilla engineers are currently working on changes to the Firefox user interface to allow anyone to enable Tracking Protection at any time from various areas of the Firefox UI. These include the drop-down security panel that shows HTTPS information or the drop-down menu that can be triggered from the top-right side of the browser. But besides the changes to the UI, Firefox devs have also worked at improving its capabilities. The Firefox browser's Settings  Privacy section now features an enhanced Tracking Protection panel that also allows users to select what anti-tracking features they can enable. While Tracking Protection has Mozilla told Bleeping Computer in Last but not least, Mozilla engineers have also simplified the process of clearing cookies in Firefox. Starting with Firefox 63, you can now clear cookies and site data for a website directly from the security panel that appears whenever a user clicks the info/lock icon in the address bar. The new button will read \"Clear Cookies and Site Data...\" and it will show up at the bottom of the security panel —the panel used to show SSL certificate information. These features are also detailed in a Firefox design doc embedded below, and anyone can preview the UI changes right now by installing and using Firefox Nightly. Earlier today, Microsoft released cumulative update KB4100403 that fixes several bugs, including Users reported these issues after updating to the latest version of Windows 10, the April 2018 Update —also known as version 1803. Owners of computers using with Intel SSD 600p Series, Intel SSD Pro 6000p Series, Toshiba XG4 Series, Toshiba XG5 Series, and Toshiba BG3 Series reported various problems. More specifically, Windows PCs using Intel SSDs would often crash and enter a UEFI screen after reboot, while users of Toshiba SSDs reported lower battery life and SSD drives becoming very hot. Many users —who still had access to a working Windows OS— were forced to downgrade back to the previous version, the Fall Creators Update, while the rest had to reinstall Windows from scratch. Microsoft became aware of the issues after a week and worked with OEM partners to halt the deployment of the April 2018 Update to any devices using the affected Intel and Toshiba SSD models [The company promised a fix for early June, but Microsoft engineers rolled one out today, via This update is available via the normal Windows Update service, or users can KB4100403 is an update only available for Windows 10 and Windows Server 2016 version 1803, and besides the Intel and Toshiba SSD issues, it also patched the following bugs: As much as people enjoy their virtual assistants, sometimes they do things that are downright creepy. Such is the case for a family in Portland who discovered that Amazon Alexa recorded a conversation without permission and sent it to a random person in their contact list. According to This person, who was an employee of the husband, stated that he had received audio recordings of conversations that took place in the family's home. He was able to prove this by telling the family what they had just been talking about. When the Portland family contacted Amazon, they finally got in touch with an Amazon engineer who stated \"our engineers went through your logs, and they saw exactly what you told us, they saw exactly what you said happened, and we're sorry.\" Danielle, the family member who contacted Amazon, stated that Amazon did not provide any details as to how or why this happened.  She further wanted to return all of Amazon Alexa devices and get her money back, which Amazon has refused to do at this time. This is not the first time Alexa has started acting weird. A few months ago, Alexa started randomly laughing and freaking their owners out. Since then Amazon had BleepingComputer has contacted Amazon for a comment regarding this incident but had not heard back at the time of publication. Two years after being ousted, a criminal operation that has been inserting malware in the firmware of low-cost Android devices is still up and running, and has even expanded its reach. News of this group first surfaced At the time, experts said they found malware in the firmware of at least 26 low-cost Android smartphone and tablets models. Once ousted, Dr.Web hoped crooks would pack up and move on to another operation. But in a report released yesterday, cyber-security firm Avast says the group has never ceased operations and has continued to poison the firmware of more and more devices, growing their operation many times over. Avast published Comparing the Dr.Web and Avast reports, the malware doesn't seem to have received any updates and still operates in the same manner. It runs from the \"/system\" folder with full root rights, and its main role is to connect to a remote server, download an XML file, and then install one or more apps mentioned in this document. Because the malware ships as a firmware component, it can easily grab any app crooks tell it to and install it without any user interaction. In almost all cases, the apps the malware installs are used solely to display ads on top of other apps or the Android interface itself. Many Android users have been noticing the ads [Crooks are obviously interested in generating revenue via ads alone, and no other shady behavior has been seen. The only times the malware won't download additional apps is when the device's language is set to Chinese, when the device's public IP address is also from a Chinese IP range, and when the number of locally installed apps is below three (indicating a test/scan environment). While it appears the group may be operating out of China because it avoids infecting Chinese users —hence avoid law enforcement attention—, Avast has not yet been able to fully determine this fact. The cyber-security firm says it has had a hard time tracking when the malware is inserted in the firmware of these devices. There are too many mobile carriers and smartphone vendors affected to pin the blame on one of them. Infected devices have been found in over 90 countries, and the only common component between them is that they all use a Mediatek chipset. But MediaTek can't be blamed either, as not all devices from an affected smartphone model are infected with the malware. If one of the MediaTek firmware components would have harbored the malware, then all devices for a specific model would have been affected, not just a handful. This means the group is opportunistic and infects devices at random, as it finds a window during which it can poison their firmware. For now, Avast says it managed to take down the group's command-and-control server for a small period of time, but because the domain registrar hasn't intervened to invalidate the group's domain name, the group simply switched to another hosting provider. The The attack —codenamed The problem, as security researchers from Pen Test Partners have explained this week, is that all S0 traffic is secured by default with an encryption key of \"0000000000000000.\" An attacker that can trick a smart device into pairing with another device, a PC, or a smartphone app via the older S0 standard, can later decrypt all traffic exchanged between the two because the decryption key is widely known. The Pen Test crew say they identified three methods that can be used to trick two devices into pairing via the old S0 instead of S2, even if both support the newer security standard. The Z-Shave attack is dangerous because devices paired via an older version of Z-Wave can become a point of entry for an attacker into a larger network, or can lead to the theft of personal property. While this flaw might prove frivolous for some devices in some scenarios, it is a big issue for others —such as smart door locks, alarm systems, or any Z-Wave-capable device on the network of a large corporation. But in a \"You would need advanced equipment in proximity to the home during the short installation process,\" a Silicon Labs spokesperson said. \"When installing a new device there is a very small window of time (milliseconds) to force the S2 to S0 reversion,\" he added. \"The homeowner or professional installer will always be present during installation and is the only one who can initiate the inclusion process.\" But Pen Test Partners dispute this latter claim, saying this is not actually an inconvenience. \"When we say active attacker – we don’t mean a guy in a hoody sat in a car with a laptop,\" said Pen Test's Andrew Tierney. \"A battery-powered drop-box could be left outside the property for weeks, waiting for a pairing event to occur.\" Tierney later added on Twitter that an attacker could also deploy a denial-of-service flaw against a targeted device to force it offline and trick the owner into re-pairing it at the attacker's convenience. But Silicon Labs also claimed that the Z-Shave attack would also be hard to pull off because any time the devices would pair via S0 instead of S2 \"the smart home controller or gateway will ALWAYS notify the user if S2 is reverted to S0 during the installation process.\" Nonetheless, this claim was proven to be wrong in a demo video recorded by the Pen Test team, where researchers didn't receive any alert. The Z-Shave attack isn't actually new. Other researchers pointed out At the time, the issue was not given enough importance because the S2-to-S0 downgrade was considered an acceptable risk for the time being, as devices needed a fallback mechanism for compatibility reasons —to interconnect the old S0 devices with the newer S2 devices. But five years later, devices are still shipping with support for Z-Wave S0, despite The issue can't be ignored for longer because Z-Wave's popularity is growing among IoT device makers due to its superior range when compared to Bluetooth. The protocol is believed to have been deployed with over 2,400 smart device models and in use by over 100 million devices. More news articles and attention givet to the Z-Shave attack might be the push that some device makers need to switch to the newer and more secure version of the protocol. A new pay what you want deal is available for 8 online courses that teach you how to get started in White Hat Hacking by learning Metasploit, WAPTP, Kali Linux, and more. This deal has a combined value of $1,528, but with the Pay What You Want bundles, you are able to get all of the courses by This bundle also comes with a 15 day satisfaction guarantee. If you are unsatisfied for any reason, just contact StackCommerce and they will issue a store credit refund within 15 days of purchase. Disclosure: This is a StackCommerce deal in partnership with BleepingComputer.com. In order to participate in this deal or giveaway you are required to register an account in our StackCommerce store. To learn more about how StackCommerce handles your registration information please see the Statistics gathered from over 11 million enterprise users reveal that Windows 10 market share is growing, Windows 7 has been slowly phased out, and, unfortunately, a large number of users are still using outdated operating systems. This statistical data was gathered by Duo Security, a cyber-security firm, and provider of secure login/access solutions, and compiled in the company's yearly Trusted Access Report. According to Duo, more and more of enterprise users using its solutions are working from remote locations. But this wasn't a surprise for the company, being already known from other reports [What did surprise Duo experts was the sudden decline in Windows 7 usage from 2017 to 2018. Usage dropped from 65% of all Windows users in 2017 to only 27% in 2018 (see chart above). Experts believe that the WannaCry ransomware incident had an effect on enterprises abandoning Windows 7, mainly because But Duo stats also showed that not all users switching from Windows 7 migrated to Windows 10. Duo says it recorded only a 4% rise in Windows 10 usage from last year. Based on its data, Duo says a vast majority of users appear to have switched to another OS, as Windows lost market share, while macOS and iOS gained more followers. But while a 48% market share for Windows 10 among all Windows enterprise users seems a reason to celebrate at Microsoft's offices, it is not for the security community. In the real world, this means that more than half of Windows enterprise users are running an outdated version of Windows. This is a reason for concern, as these devices are prone to hacks, exploits, and malware. Nonetheless, Windows is not nearly in as bad of a shape as other operating systems. For example, the same Duo statistics revealed that the percentage of iOS, macOS, ChromeOS, and Android users running older versions of their respective operating systems are bigger than Windows'. According to Duo's numbers, 90% of all Android devices were running an out-of-date OS version, 85% of ChromeOS devices were running an out-of-date OS version, 74% of macOS users were running an out-of-date OS version, and 56% of iOS users doing the same. The Duo report also includes a similar statistic analyzing the percentage of browsers that were kept up to date. According to Duo, Firefox Mobile was by far the most out-of-date browser employed by its customers, with 95% of all Firefox Mobile users utilizing an out-of-date version. The most up-to-date browser was Internet Explorer, but this statistic is tainted because IE hasn't received any major updates for years, and users had a long period of time to update to the latest version. More statistics and charts are available in the Today Microsoft released Windows 10 Insider Preview Build 17677 (Redstone 5) to insiders in the fast and skip ahead rings. This build introduces new features to Microsoft Edge, Narrator improvements, Kernel debugging improvements, Mobile Broadband (LTE) driver improvements, and changes to how Task Manager lists memory for suspended UWP apps. In this build Microsoft made some improvements to Microsoft Edge that include: You can now use Narrator's scan mode to select content in Microsoft Edge, Word, Outlook, Mail, and most text surfaces. We are adding support for IPv6 to KDNET. To make room for the larger headers required for IPv6, we’re decreasing the payload size of packets. As a result, we’re declaring a new version of the protocol, so that host PCs running the latest version of the debugger can be used to debug target PCs that only support IPv4. An updated SDK and WDK will be released soon with this support.  In prior versions, Task Manager would continue to show memory usage for suspended UWP apps.  With this version, Task Manager will no longer do that as Windows can reclaim memory from suspended apps as needed. The Mobile Broadband driver was updated to use the NetAdapter framework in To see the entire release notes, you can read the Security researchers have discovered a new banking trojan named BackSwap that uses never-before-seen techniques to facilitate the theft of online funds. The techniques the trojan uses have not been observed with another malware family, and they can bypass antivirus software detection and security protections put in place at the browser level. Experts believe these techniques will soon be copied by other groups and spread around to trigger a new wave of banking trojan attacks right when infections with this malware type have begun to go down. Until now, all previous banking trojans used two main tricks to steal money from victims. The first technique, now rarely used, relied on altering local DNS and Internet settings by intercepting requests for banking-related sites and redirecting the user via a proxy to a clone website of the original banking portal, where crooks would collect login credentials and act as a middleman between the user and the bank. The second technique, currently the go-to solution for all major banking trojans like Dridex, Ursnif, Zbot, Trickbot, Qbot, and others, relied on injecting malicious code inside the browser's process. This technique was efficient in the beginning, but antivirus vendors have modified their apps to scan for process injection attempts, and have become quite good at detecting these events. Browser vendors have similarly modified their software to prevent banking trojans from easily tapping into the browser's internal functions that allow trojans to meddle with a page's content. Nowadays, the process injection technique is more of a headache for banking trojan makers, as they have to review and modify their injection code after every browser update because browser vendors always change something that breaks the attackers' previous code. This constant hassle and improved AV protection are, maybe, one of the reasons why many cybercriminal groups have moved from distributing banking trojans to new types of malware such as in-browser miners, coinminers, ransomware, and others. But in a Furthermore, these techniques bypass both AV and browser-related protections because they don't tamper with the browser process at all. The first technique BackSwap deploys is a technique used for detecting when the user is accessing a banking-related website. According to ESET, BackSwap uses a native Windows mechanism named the \"message loop.\" According to BackSwap simply taps into the Windows message loop to search for URL-like patterns, such as \"https\" strings and other terms related to a bank's name. Once it detects the browser is accessing and loading a banking-related website, BackSwap uses one of two techniques to tamper with the loaded content. For both techniques, the trojan doesn't inject code inside the browser's process but merely simulates key presses. Initial versions of the BackSwap trojan used the following method to alter what users are seeing inside web pages. This entire attack takes under a second to execute, and users will have a hard time noticing that something went wrong or even distinguishing it from a regular browser freeze. But despite its simplicity, the BackSwap crew seems to have abandoned this first technique, and moved to a new one, which interacts with the browser's address bar. ESET says BackSwap supports attacks against Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox and Internet Explorer, but with little tweaks, the techniques should work against all browsers, since all modern browsers today support a developer console and the BackSwap's techniques are incredibly easy to execute, and don't necessarily rely on high-level knowledge of the Windows OS to implement, like previous banking trojan attacks. While they're bound to spread to other banking trojan families in the upcoming future, at the moment, this trojan is not a global threat. Researchers say that current versions of BackSwap come with support for altering the web portals of only five Polish banks —PKO Bank Polski, Bank Zachodni WBK S.A., mBank, ING, and Pekao. Nonetheless, ESET said it notified browser vendors about BackSwap's new techniques in the hopes they'd deploy countermeasures in upcoming browser versions, and mitigate these types of attacks before they go mainstream with other malware families. As if Ben and Jerry's, beautiful landscape, and legalized marijuana wasn't enough of an incentive, Vermont has passed legislation called the \"New Remote Worker Grant Program\" that will pay a remote worker's expenses if they move to Vermont. As remote workers can work anywhere, Vermont is hoping that this grant will entice workers to move to Vermont, which allows the State to generate greater taxes and economic growth. Approved by both the Vermont House and Senate and now waiting to be signed by the Governor, the grant will pay a remote worker up to $5,000 a year, to a lifetime total of $10,000, to cover expenses incurred from relocating to Vermont and working remotely. In order to qualify for this grant, remote workers will need to move to Vermont on or after January 1st, 2019 and apply for the grant. Existing remote workers will not be elegible to participate in this program. The expenses covered under this bill include: According to   This was a very quiet week with very few ransomware variants released and not much news at all, which we are always happy about. The biggest news has been the Contributors and those who provided new ransomware information and stories this week include: A new and active campaign for the CryptON Ransomware is currently underway where attackers are hacking into computers with Internet accessible Remote Desktop Services. Once the attackers gain access to the computer they manually execute the ransomware and encrypt your files. The Coca-Cola company announced a data breach incident this week after a former employee was found in possession of worker data on a personal hard drive. The company learned of the security breach last September after law enforcement officials contacted Coca-Cola. Investigators said that a former employee at a Coca-Cola subsidiary was found in possession of an external hard drive containing information that appeared to have been misappropriated from Coca-Cola. Coca-Cola says it worked with law enforcement in the past months to investigate the data's origin and validity, and determined that some documents contained the personal information of some of its workers. Following state laws, the company is now sending notification letters to affected employees. \"We are issuing data breach notices to about 8,000 individuals whose personal information was included in computer files that a former employee took with him when he left the company,\" a Coca-Cola spokesperson told The type of stolen and exposed data varies per employee, the spokesperson told us. \"We take information security very seriously, and we sympathize with everyone whose information may have been exposed. We regret any inconvenience or concern this may be causing them,\" the spokesperson added. \"We do not have any information to suggest that the information was used to commit identify theft.\" Coca-Cola is offering free identity monitoring for one year to affected employees through a third-party provider. The company also added it waited until now to report the breach to employees at the request of law enforcement, who were still investigating the incident. Coca-Cola is not the first major company to have its data exposed by former employees. SunTrust suffered a Plus, there are many other similar cases of disgruntled employees doing damage to their former companies on which we have reported in the past [A copy of Coca-Cola's employee notification letter is available below. Four researchers from the Fraunhofer Institute for Applied and Integrated Safety in Munich, Germany have published a research paper this week detailing a method of recovering data that is normally encrypted by AMD's Secure Encrypted Virtualization (SEV), a safety mechanism designed to encrypt the data of virtual machines running on servers with AMD CPUs. The research team says their attack, which they named SEVered, is capable of recovering plaintext memory data from guest VMs running on the same server as the VM that's under attack. SEVered also doesn't require physical access or malicious code to be present on the attacked VM and can be carried out remotely by sending network requests to applications such as Apache, nginx, or OpenSSH. \"By repeatedly sending requests for the same resource to the service while re-mapping the identified memory pages, we extract all the VM’s memory in plaintext,\" researchers said in their paper, entitled \"The attack is successful because the VM stores some of its data inside the main RAM memory, and \"the page-wise encryption of main memory lacks integrity protection.\" This allows an attacker to map out the entire memory and then requests parts used by other nearby VMs, of which the attacked guest VM shouldn't be able to access, let alone in plaintext. During tests of their attack, researchers said they were able to retrieve a test server's entire 2GB memory, including data from a guest VM. Researchers achieved the best results by bombarding Apache and nginx with repeated requests, retrieving memory data at a speed of 79.4 KB/sec, while an attack on OpenSSH was slower, retrieving data at only 41.6 KB/sec. The research team also added that their SEVered attack isn't hindered by maxed out servers, being able to retrieve memory data even when the targeted VM is under a high load. The team's work was showcased last month at the 11th European Workshop on Systems Security, held in Porto, Portugal. For their test rig, researchers used an Three researchers from Columbia University have created a technique named FontCode that can be used to embed hidden messages inside font glyphs (characters). The technique takes advantage of how computers work with font glyphs, which for them, are nothing more than mathematical equations used to draw lines and curves on a screen. The FontCode technique consists of altering these equations to produce slight perturbations in one or more font characters. An external observer can scan for these perturbations and decode them into indivudual letters based on a custom algorithm. According to researchers, FontCode perturbations were designed to produce very slight alterations to current font glyphs, so they remain imperceptible to the human eye of a third-party observer. The entire idea is to hide and relay hidden messages inside normally-looking text. Researchers say the FontCode algorithm could be used to hide secret messages inside all kinds of text, not just alpha-numeric characters. For example, music notes or mathematical equations printed inside research papers. FontCode is also a medium-agnostic technique, because font perturbations could be embedded and later read from text that has been deployed in various mediums, such as images, PDF documents, Word files, screens, printed paper, and so on. The team hopes their FontCode system would be adopted in the real world. They say the system could replace barcodes and QR codes and could be used to embed additional information inside labels, where there's no additional space for a big barcode or QR code. Second, the system could also be used by whistleblowers and leakers to embed hidden messages inside benign-looking text that would not arouse suspicion during a visual inspection. Furthermore, the system could also be used as an anti-whistleblower, document watermarking, or as a copyright infringement detection system by embedding hidden messages in text or works of art that might get leaked, allowing data owners to track down the origin of the leak based on the hidden message embedded in the leaked document. For now, the system is still under development, but researchers plan to release tools for embedding hidden messages in font glyphs, and a mobile app to scan text, look for perturbations, and decode the hidden text. A demo of this app and an explanation for the FontCode technique is embedded below. More details are available in a research paper titled \"FontCode: Embedding Information in Text Documents using Glyph Perturbation\" [A new feature in Windows 10 called With Sets, when you open a program using the \"As some people may want an application started with the \"Start\" command to open in its own dedicated window, Microsoft has added the \"/newwindow\" argument to the Start command in Now if a user wants to start a new application in a dedicated window from the Windows 10 Command Prompt they can use the \"/newwindow\" argument as shown below: The above command will launch Notepad into a new window rather than in a new tab in the Command Prompt window. When testing this command, not all Sets support applications would launch properly with this argument. For example, the \"start /newwindow microsoft-edge:\" command, which I would have expected to launch Edge into a new window, just produced the \"The system cannot execute the specified program.\" error.   Oracle plans to drop support for data serialization/deserialization from the main body of the Java language, according to Mark Reinhold, chief architect of the Java platform group at Oracle. Serialization is the process of taking a data object and converting it into a stream of bytes (binary format), so it can be transported across a network or saved inside a database, only to be deserialized later and used in its original form. Because of its convenience, a large number of high-level programming languages support the feature but nowhere has it been more of a headache than in Java, where it's been at the heart of a constant stream of security flaws. Speaking to Reinhold says the Java team is currently working on dropping serialization support for good from the language's main body, but still provide developers with a plug-in system to support serialization operations if needed via a new framework. There's no set date or Java version when Oracle plans to drop serilization, Reinhold said. But until Oracle does this, companies and project leads that don't want a developer or a rogue module calling serialization/deserialization functions can prevent this via a \"Attacks via serialization/deserialization operations have been known for years, in a form or other, but they became everyone's problem in early 2015 when two researchers — Chris Frohoff and Gabriel Lawrence — Researchers from Their experiments showed that an attacker could upload malicious data inside popular Java apps such as WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss, Jenkins, and OpenNMS.  This data would be serialized and stored in a database or in memory, but when the app would deserialize it, the app would also execute additional malicious code. The flaw rocked the Java ecosystem in 2016, as it also affected That particular Java deserialization flaw was so dangerous that While Java serialization/deserialization security issues were known for a long time, the 2015 Java Apocalypse served as a wake-up call for many companies, and the Java community as a whole, who started paying more attention to how they serialize and later deserialize data. Reinhold told InfoWorld that serialization issues could be very easily responsible for a third or even a half of all known Java flaws. His assessment is most likely correct. For example, Oracle's January 2018 security updates fixed 237 vulnerabilities, of which The issue is also very widespread across companies. A Just one Apache Struts (Java) deserialization bug from last year But while Oracle is addressing the issue in Java, serialization also affects other programming environments like A new feature proposal for the Python programming language wants to add \"transparency\" to the runtime and let security and auditing tools view when Python may be running potentially dangerous operations. In its current form, Python does not allow security tools to see what operations the runtime is performing. Unless one of those operations generates particular errors that may raise a sign of alarm, security and auditing tools are blind that an attacker may be using Python to carry out malicious operations on a system. But in Python Enhancement Proposal 551 (\"We propose two API changes to enable this: an Audit Hook and Verified Open Hook,\" Dower says. \"Both are not set by default, and both require modifications to the entry point binary to enable any functionality.\" The first of these, the Audit Hook API, will raise warning messages about certain type of Python operations. \"These operations are typically deep within the Python runtime or standard library, such as dynamic code compilation, module imports, DNS resolution, or use of certain modules such as ctypes,\" Dower says. Security or audit tools may use these messages as warning flags that something suspicious is going on, and flag or stop the Python process from continuing, before real harm is done. The second, the Verified Open Hook API, is a mechanism to let the Python runtime know what files it is permitted to execute or tamper with. Dower explains: Dower has proposed PEP-551, last year in August. Early tests suggest the performance impact of adding these two APIs is negligible, \"with the vast majority of benchmarks showing between 1.05x faster to 1.05x slower\" results. Initial plans were to have PEP-551 ship with Python 3.7, scheduled for release in mid-June 2018, but the proposal did not make the final cut, according to a Python is the second major scripting engine that is addressing the issue of \"security optics\" —the concept that programming and scripting runtimes should provide minimum transparency to aid prevention of bad behavior. The company behind Ghostery, a privacy-focused browser and an ad-blocking browser extension,  has apologized for a technical error that occurred last Friday when its staff was sending out GDPR-themed notification emails. According to numerous user reports, Ghostery sent out emails that exposed the addresses of other users. The emails were sent to batches of 500 users at the same time, and every user in each batch was able to see the email addresses of the other users. \"We at HELL YES Ghostery is off to a great start. Hey One thing you can do for Really you cannot make this up: the privacy driven Chrome extension Weird move from Ghostery realized the error on Friday, and after an investigation, explained on Saturday that the error was caused by an operator's mistake working with their new self-hosted email delivery platform for the first time. The company said it stopped email sending operations as soon as it realized what it happened, and published on Saturday The emails Ghostery was sending out included information about the company's new GDPR-related changes in its privacy policy. A Ironically, the incident caused Ghostery to break GDPR, a new user and data privacy regulation that come into effect in the EU last Friday, May 25, 2018 [The incident isn't as bad as it sounds, as only email addresses were exposed. It's more funny than an actual security breach. Ghostery said it plans to report the incident to EU authorities, as the new GDPR directive mandates. While there's no way to accurately verify this, Ghostery may actually be the first company that reports a breach under the new GDPR rules. A new pay what you want deal is available for 10 online courses on how to program in HTML, PHP, JavaScript, Python, and more. This deal has a combined value of $1,990, but with the Pay What You Want bundles, you are able to get all of the courses by This bundle also comes with a 15 day satisfaction guarantee. If you are unsatisfied for any reason, just contact StackCommerce and they will issue a store credit refund within 15 days of purchase. Disclosure: This is a StackCommerce deal in partnership with BleepingComputer.com. In order to participate in this deal or giveaway you are required to register an account in our StackCommerce store. To learn more about how StackCommerce handles your registration information please see the Despite its leader's arrest in Spain two months ago, the Cobalt hacker group that's specialized in stealing money from banks and financial institutions has remained active, even launching a new campaign. \"Cobalt is still active: its members continue attacks on financial organizations and other companies worldwide,\" said Dmitry Volkov, the Chief Technical Officer of Group-IB, the company who detected this new Cobalt operation. This new campaign was set in motion last week, May 23, when the company's security experts discovered one of Cobalt's phishing emails, aimed at banks in Russia and other former Soviet states. According to a report that Group-IB plans to release tomorrow but shared with Bleeping Computer, this spear-phishing email was designed to look like a security alert sent out by fellow Russian cyber-security firm Kaspersky Lab. Victims were urged to access a link to read and answer to a complaint that Kaspersky received about an alleged criminal act supposedly committed by the victim. The spear-phishing email was an obvious ruse to lure users on a malicious site where they'd be infected with the CobInt trojan, Group-IB says. CobInt is a malware strain that was historically used only by the Cobalt group, a clear indicator that the rest of the Cobalt members weren't deterred or phased by their leader's arrests, and appear to have no plan of stopping from hacking banks any time soon. Furthermore, the group looks to have returned to attacking Russian banks, after focusing their recent efforts on other Eastern European targets. Group-IB says that previous attempts to rob Russian banks had been recorded in December 2017, more than five months ago. The group is known for silently infiltrating bank networks through individual employee accounts, and infecting other computers on the local network until they find a PC that controls financial transactions. The group, in spite of its leader's arrest, still remains a force to be reckoned with, and one of the most successful hacker groups known to date. Security experts and law enforcement officials estimate the group made more than €1 billion ($1.16 billion), with a hack average of €10 million ($11.6 million) per heist. Throughout its history, the group has stolen money through various methods, ranging from sending illegal SWIFT transactions to orchestrating ATM cash-outs. More on the group's modus operandi and their history The creators of the Taylor cryptocurrency trading app claim that an unidentified hacker has stolen around $1.35 million worth of Ether from the company's wallets. The hack allegedly took place on Tuesday, last week, \"All of our funds have been stolen,\" the dev team said. \"Not only the balance in ETH (2,578.98 ETH), but also the TAY tokens from the Team and Bounty pools. The only tokens that were not stolen are the ones from the Founders’ and Advisors' pools, because there’s a vesting contract making them inaccessible for now.\" The stolen Ether is worth $1.35 million. The Taylor team says the funds have been transferred through multiple addresses The Taylor team believes the hacker is the same person/group who stole over 17,000 Ether ($9 million) from the CypheriumChain project The funds stolen from the Taylor team come from the company's recently completed initial coin offering (ICO) round. Besides the stolen Ether, the hacker also stole some of the TAY tokens the Taylor team had created for the ICO. Taylor devs did not reveal the amount of stolen TAY tokens, meaning the hack could be even bigger. Soon after discovering the hack, the Taylor team says it also noticed an attempt to dump some of the stolen TAY tokens and exchange them for other cryptocurrencies. Developers asked the IDEX platform, where these tokens can be traded, to delist TAY tokens for the time being, in an attempt to prevent the hacker from monetizing the entirety of the stolen funds. Unfortunately, this also means legitimate TAY token owners, the users who invested in the Taylor app ICO, can't trade their tokens either. As with any major ICO hack, rumors quickly appeared claiming the hack is The creators of the Taylor cryptocurrency trading app claim that an unidentified hacker has stolen around $1.35 million worth of Ether from the company's wallets. The hack allegedly took place on Tuesday, last week, \"All of our funds have been stolen,\" the dev team said. \"Not only the balance in ETH (2,578.98 ETH), but also the TAY tokens from the Team and Bounty pools. The only tokens that were not stolen are the ones from the Founders’ and Advisors' pools, because there’s a vesting contract making them inaccessible for now.\" The stolen Ether is worth $1.35 million. The Taylor team says the funds have been transferred through multiple addresses The Taylor team believes the hacker is the same person/group who stole over 17,000 Ether ($9 million) from the CypheriumChain project The funds stolen from the Taylor team come from the company's recently completed initial coin offering (ICO) round. Besides the stolen Ether, the hacker also stole some of the TAY tokens the Taylor team had created for the ICO. Taylor devs did not reveal the amount of stolen TAY tokens, meaning the hack could be even bigger. Soon after discovering the hack, the Taylor team says it also noticed an attempt to dump some of the stolen TAY tokens and exchange them for other cryptocurrencies. Developers asked the IDEX platform, where these tokens can be traded, to delist TAY tokens for the time being, in an attempt to prevent the hacker from monetizing the entirety of the stolen funds. Unfortunately, this also means legitimate TAY token owners, the users who invested in the Taylor app ICO, can't trade their tokens either. As with any major ICO hack, rumors quickly appeared claiming the hack is Two Canadian banks put out statements on Monday announcing separate cyber-incidents affecting their customers. The two are Simplii Financial, a subsidiary of CIBC, and the Bank of Montreal —two of Canada's biggest banks. The first one to put out a The bank is currently investigating if the claim is true, but in the meantime, it says it deployed \"enhanced online fraud monitoring and online banking security measures\" to prevent abuse of customers' data. Simplii Financial promised to \"return 100% of the money lost from the affected bank account,\" in case users notice and report any fraudulent transactions. Simplii also said there's no evidence that customers of CIBC —its parent company— were affected, and the incident seems to be contained in its branch only. An hour after Simplii put out its statement, Bank of Montreal put out a similar Bank of Montreal did not reveal how many customers might have had their data compromised but said it believes to have closed the hackers' point of entry into its systems. Bank officials also added that they believe the hack originated from outside the country, albeit they did not elaborate on this claim with any other information. Statements from both banks were kept to a minimum as both institutions are still investigating the incident. Spokesperson for both banks were not available for comment. Some users are downplaying the hacks' importance due to the limited number of exposed accounts, especially when compared to the Equifax mega breach that affected over 145.5 million US users last year. Users of the NPM JavaScript package manager were greeted by a weird error yesterday evening, as their consoles and applications spewed a message of \"ERR! 418 I'm a teapot\" whenever they tried to update or install a new JavaScript/Node.js package. JavaScript developers from all over the world received the error, and not just in certain geographical regions. The bug did not affect all users, but only those behind a proxy server. In spite of this, a large number of developers were impacted because most large-scale development firms usually operate behind proxies that regulate and control internal network traffic. The reason for the bug was that some proxy servers where appending a port value to requests destined for the NPM package registry, resulting in HTTP requests that looked like The additional port 443 value confused the NPM registry's servers, which then triggered the 418 error code. The NPM team The \"Error 418 I'm a teapot\" message is not a standard server error type. This all goes back to an April Fools' prank dating to 1998, when a group of developers jokingly proposed the The In the last two decades, the 1998 prank achieved It's now quite apparent that the team behind the Node Package Manager (NPM) was also a fan of this meme. The Windows Registry Editor, otherwise known as RegEdit.exe, is an important tool for power users and IT support when it comes to fixing various Windows issues, enabling features, or diagnosing problems. Navigating to a particular key, though, could sometimes be annoying as the data in the Registry is organized in a tree format and you have to expand numerous subkeys before you got to the one you were looking for. With the release of the For example, if you want to access the \"HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Microsoft\\Windows\\CurrentVersion\\Run\" key to delete some autoruns, you can simply paste it into the address bar and press Enter as shown below. This address bar is also extremely helpful when assisting users remotely as you can just send them the key you wish to open and they can paste it into the address bar to easily get there. While this is not a major feature, sometimes the small things matter the most. In this particular case, an address bar in Regedit.exe is definitely a welcome addition. After it was reported that the Unfortunately, as shown by the five phone calls I received today, many people heard the reboot part, but did not read the rest of the recommendations of turning off remote administration, changing passwords, and upgrading to the latest firmware. One step that was not mentioned is the fact that the only way to truly remove VPNFilter is to reset the router to factory defaults. Due to this, people are just resetting their routers, but leaving part of the malware still present after it is rebooted. With that said, I have put together a guide on VPNFilter, what the VPNFilter is malware that targets routers and NAS devices in order to steal files, information, and examine network traffic as it flows through the device. When the malware is installed, it will consist of three different stages, with each stage performing specific functions. While Stage 1 will run again after a router is rebooted, Stage 2 and 3 will not. For this reason, the FBI has suggested that everyone reboot their router in order to disable Stage 2 and Stage 3 and to also allow the FBI to get a list of infected victims and the types of routers that are affected. According to reports from Cisco, Symantec, and the Security Service of Ukraine, the affected routers are: While the above are the currently known routers that can be infected with VPNFilter, there is no guarantee that they are the only ones. Therefore, everyone should follow the below recommendations to harden and secure their routers regardless of the make and manufacturer. Unfortunately, there is no easy way to tell if your router is infected with VPNFilter. If you are concerned, or suspect, that your router is infected with VPNFilter you should perform the suggestions below. The short answer is yes and no. Rebooting the router will unload the Stage 2 and Stage 3 components of VPNFilter, but Stage 1 will start again after the router reboots. So while the most malicious components will be disabled, VPNFilter will still be present on your device. The only real way to fully remove this infection is to reset your router back to factory defaults, which will also reboot the router. Unfortunately, this process will require you to setup your router again, add an admin password, and setup any wireless networks that are configured.  The full steps you should take to remove VPNFilter and protect your router are listed below. To completely remove VPNFilter and protect your router from being infected again, you should follow these steps: While these steps will remove the VPNFilter infection and protect you from current known threats, they are not going to protect you forever. As new exploits are discovered in current firmware, your routers will become vulnerable again. Therefore, it is always important to check for new firmware updates and install them when they come out. This is a tough one. On one hand, its always better to be safe than sorry. On the other, for some it can be very difficult to configure a router from scratch.  With that said, I A mysterious attacker is scanning the Internet for EOS blockchain nodes that are accidentally exposing private keys through an API misconfiguration. The scans started today, according to threat intelligence firm GreyNoise, and all the malicious activity appears to be originating from the IP address: 185.169.231.209. If you run an Scans appear to have started today, hours after security researchers from Chinese security firm Qihoo 360 published a report about a remote code execution flaw affecting the EOS blockchain platform, but the scans don't seem to be related to this report. Instead, the scans appear to be related to a The scans GreyNoise picked up today are related to this API endpoint, and more precisely the API endpoint located at According to the GitHub bug report, there is no authentication system to protect access to this API endpoint, which is also automatically exposed via the EOS node's public Internet-facing interface. The person behind the scans has clearly seen the GitHub bug report and is now looking for EOS nodes where this API endpoint has been turned on and left exposed online without the user's knowledge. But the situation is not as dark and grim as it sounds. According to an EOS developer answering to the bug report, this API endpoint is not a standard feature of the EOS API and is only part of the wallet_plugin. This is an API plugin meant for running tests, meaning very few node owners are likely to be exposing this API endpoint online, and generally not on production nodes. Nonetheless, careless EOS node owners who couldn't be bothered to read the API docs, should take note and disable this plugin, and use another method of retrieving private keys from their EOS blockchain node. The EOS initial coin offering (ICO), which is currently raising funds to build this infrastructure, EOS tokens, issued during the ICO, are ranked as the fifth largest cryptocurrency/token (based on total market cap) in the world, right after Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple, and Bitcoin Cash. Earlier today, cyber-security firm Qihoo 360 revealed details [The EOS team Dan Larimer confirms the “Epic” EOS vulnerability is fixed and the reporting is FUD. Facts. Google released earlier today Chrome 67, the latest stable release of its web browser. According to changelogs released with Chrome 67, this version adds support for a Generic Sensors API, improves AR and VR experiences, and deprecates the HTTP-Based Public Key Pinning (HPKP) security feature. Users can update to the latest version via their browser's auto-update system in the \"Help  About Google Chrome\" section. As of today, the Chrome stable version number is v67.0.3396.62. Probably the biggest change in Chrome 67 is the addition of the Generic Sensors API. As the name implies, this is an API that exposes data from device sensors to public websites. The new API is based on the This API is meant primarily for mobile use, and in its current version, websites can use Chrome's Generic Sensors API to access data from a device's accelerometer, gyroscope, orientation and motion sensors. Another API that shipped with Chrome is the WebXR Device API. Developers can use this API to build virtual and augmented reality experiences on Chrome for mobile-based VR headsets like Google Daydream View and Samsung Gear VR, as well as desktop-hosted headsets like Oculus Rift, HTC Vive, and Windows Mixed Reality Headsets. API documentation is available Last but not least, users of Chrome 67 can now flip a Chrome flag to enable and test Chrome's new UI. Details on what flag you need to edit are available in our previous coverage, Just like Google Chrome 66, this month's v67 also ships with loads of security-related changes. Similar to last month, Google has continued to roll out the Google has been using the Strict Site Isolation feature to mitigate the effects of the Meltdown and Spectre flaws. With new Meltdown and Spectre variations Chrome 67 is also the first Chrome version that supports the Last but not least, starting with v67, Google has dropped support from Chrome for the HTTP-Based Public Key Pinning (HPKP) standard. More on this change in our Users interested in finding out what else was included with Chrome 67 can check this The security-related bugs fixed in Chrome 67 are detailed in a separate blog post, A 23-year-old Canadian man who hacked into Yahoo and Gmail accounts on behalf of Russian Secret Service (FSB) agents was sentenced to five years in prison and a fine of $250,000. The hacker's name is Karim Baratov, a Kazakh national living in Canada. Baratov pleaded guilty last year, admitting to providing hacker-for-hire services. Among his clients were two FSB agents —Igor Anatolyevich Sushchin, 43, and Dmitry Aleksandrovich Dokuchaev, 33. The two FSB agents already had access to Yahoo email accounts after hiring another hacker named Alexsey Belan, aka \"Magg,\" to break into Yahoo's network and steal authentication cookies to secretly access accounts for persons of interest. According to court documents, the two FSB agents found Baratov's hacker-for hire website and hired him to break into Yahoo accounts for which users changed passwords and they couldn't access anymore on their own. They also asked him to break into Gmail accounts. Baratov used spear-phishing techniques, posing as various service providers, to trick users into handing over passwords and gaining access to victims' accounts. Even if Baratov did not participate in the actual hack of the Yahoo network He was arrested within days by Canadian police and later accepted to be deported to the US to face charges. He Baratov was initially supposed to receive his sentencing last month, but the judge presiding over the case wanted more time to hear arguments on the sentence's length. The prosecution asked the judge to take into consideration that Baratov was also behind many other hacks for which he was not formally charged, but which he carried out through his website. The prosecution Baratov will serve his sentence in the US and will then be deported back to Canada. The young hacker apologized in court for his actions. The two FSB agents and the hacker Magg remain at large. US authorities believe all three are located in Russia, a state with which the US does not have a formal extradition treaty. \"It’s difficult to overstate the unprecedented nature of this conspiracy, in which members of a foreign intelligence service directed and empowered criminal hackers to conduct a massive cyber-attack against 500 million victim user accounts,\" said Special Agent in Charge John F. Bennett in a press release today by the US DOJ. The developers behind Git and various companies providing Git repository hosting services have pushed out a fix to patch a dangerous vulnerability in the Git source code versioning software. The fix is included with Of these, CVE-2018-11235 is considered the most dangerous, as it allows a malicious actor to create a malformed Git repository containing a specially-built Git submodule. Whenever a user clones this repository, because of the way Git clients handle this malicious Git submodule may allow an attacker to execute code on users' systems. Git 2.17.1, released last night, should prevent the execution of these commands on users' computers. But patches aren't only rolled out to Git clients. A fix is also included for Git's server-side component. This server-side fix allows Git hosting services to recognize code repositories containing malicious submodules, and block users from uploading them in the first place. Git hosting services like GitHub and Microsoft (via its Visual Studio Team Services) have already deployed the patches to prevent attackers from abusing their services. \"This is actually where most of the work went,\" said Jeff King, a GitHub staff member. \"The fix itself was pretty trivial, but detection during [Git push operations] required a lot of refactoring.\" King said the work involved many projects. \"I wrote the patches for Git itself, but others worked on libgit2, JGit, and VSTS,\" he added. Edward Thomson, Program Manager for Visual Studio Team Services, has also Credit for the discovery of this vulnerability goes to Etienne Stalmans, who reported it via GitHub's bug bounty program. Users are advised to update their Git desktop and/or server clients. Honda Car India has left the personal details of over 50,000 users exposed on two public Amazon S3 buckets, according to a The two AWS buckets contained the personal details of users who downloaded and installed Honda Connect is your typical remote car management app, which allows users to interact with their Honda smart cars, but also to contract and interact with services provided by Honda Car India. As such, across time, the app had collected and stored vasts amounts of personal data about Honda India's customers and their respective cars. Bob Diachenko, the Kromtech security researcher who found the exposed S3 buckets and contacted Honda, says the servers contained the following types of user and car information: But Diachenko wasn't the first to discover Honda India's S3 buckets. Diachenko says that when he came across the exposed buckets, they already contained a file named poc.txt with the following message. This is an automated file created by a security researcher named Diachenko says the timestamp on Wiggins' file was February 28, 2018, three months and one day ago. \"Honda Car India didn't even notice that a security researcher added a note to their buckets,\" Diachenko noted. \"There is no excuse for that, it clearly illustrates that they are simply running on auto-pilot with no monitoring at all.\" The Kromtech researcher has, in the meantime, personally notified Honda Car India about their leaky S3 buckets, which are now secured. Nonetheless, the process wasn't easy. Diachenko told Bleeping Computer that it took almost two weeks to get in contact with the company and have it secure its users' data. So, finally, Today In this article I will provide a brief summary of any changes that have occurred in this new variant.  As we are always looking for weaknesses, if you are a victim of this variant and decide to pay the ransom, please While the encryption methods stay the same in this variant, there have been some slight differences. The text of the ransom note has been changed and now uses the backuppc@tuta.io, backuppc@protonmail.com, backuppc1@protonmail.com, b4ckuppc1@yandex.com, b4ckuppc2@yandex.com, and backuppc1@dr.com email addresses for a victim to contact for payment information. The next noticeable change is the extension appended to encrypted files. With this version, when a file is encrypted by the ransomware, it will modify the filename and then append the Unfortunately, at this time the ransomware cannot be decrypted for free. As this is just a cursory analysis of this new variant, if anything else is discovered, we will be sure to update this article. In order to protect yourself from ransomware, it is important that you use good computing habits and security software. First and foremost, you should always have a reliable and tested backup of your data that can be restored in the case of an emergency, such as a ransomware attack. You should also have security software that incorporates behavioral detections to combat ransomware and not just signature detections or heuristics.  For example, Last, but not least, make sure you practice the following security habits, which in many cases are the most important steps of all: For a complete guide on ransomware protection, you visit our    Keys to the Universal Music Group's IT kingdom were made available online this month due to a forgetful IT contractor, Bleeping Computer has learned. This leak of highly sensitive information took place because a third-party contractor that was managing a part of Universal's IT systems had deployed an instance of an Apache Airflow server without securing it with a password. By default, such servers are meant to be deployed inside internal networks, hidden behind firewalls. As such, to ease the work of IT engineers, the Apache Airflow team has decided to ship instances of its software without an authentication system enabled by default, reducing the amount of work and time needed to deploy a fully-working Airflow instance. However, Airflow developers understood this would cause problems, so the first sentence they wrote in the This was an obvious and clear warning for server admins deploying such systems on the Internet. But Bob Diachenko, a security researcher with Germany-based cyber-security firm Kromtech, has discovered earlier this month an Apache Airflow instance open wide on the Internet. Diachenko says the server was exposing FTP credentials, AWS configuration details (secret access key and password), SQL passwords, and internal source code for Universal Music's IT network. The researcher tracked down the leak to an IT contractor named But in an \"There is no excuse for putting security second in your development projects today,\" Diachenko says. \"There are plenty of examples now showing how this approach fails. \"For example, we've reported many MongoDB instances that leaked data because security was not the first priority in development. MongoDB made many changes to catch up. A security first approach is always the best approach when dealing with sensitive data.\" After almost a day long tease showing a humourous The only clues we have right now about Fallout 76 are from the trailer where see a vault dweller waking up at 6:34 AM on October 27th 2102 to the song \"Take Me Home, Country Roads\". This song is about West Virginia, which is most likely a clue indicating that Vault 76 is located in Virginia. The trailer continues with a TV playing a video about how its time for Vault 76 to open up and for the dwellers to explore and rebuild the world. It then pans to the remnants of a previous celebration for Reclamation Day, which is when Vaults open up to explore the world after the War. Finally, we see the Vault Dweller gearing up in a shiny Vault 76 suit and strapping on a PIP Boy, which indicates the dweller is about to leave the vault. As for Vault 76, not much is known other than brief snippets of information gleaned from other games. According to the Rumors are floating around that this will be both a single-player and multi-player game, but nothing has been confirmed from Bethesda as of yet. When the E3 gaming conference begins in two weeks, we can expect to see more information from Bethesda regarding this new game in the Fallout universe.  Automatic tank gauges (ATGs) provide information on gasoline inventory and protect groundwater from gasoline leaks. Three years ago it was revealed that ATGs at approximately 5,000 US gas stations were exposed on the Internet, without password protection.  Currently, according to a The initial research in 2015, led by HD Moore, then the chief research officer at Rapid7, was based on internet scans for devices with an open TCP port 10001. Trend Micro also conducted gas tank The use of skimmers on ATMs had been in the news for a while in 2016 when criminals began using them at the gas pump to steal Florida resident, Tracy Schlosstein had no idea someone had been hacking into gas pumps at the stations she frequents. These were Bluetooth enabled credit card skimmers. “I think that's sad because they could be over there in the next parking lot reading information, hacking it off the computer,\" Schlosstein said. At that time, there were over 300 skimmers found at gas station pumps in Florida, according to the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. Many of those were Bluetooth enabled, while others were conventional skimmers. A year later, Skimmers that send stolen card data wirelessly via GSM text messages and other mobile-based communications methods have been used in ATM skimming devices for a while now. GSM-based skimmers can transmit stolen card data wirelessly via text message which allows thieves to receive real-time transmissions of the card data anywhere in the world. There's no need to return to the scene of the crime and the data can then be turned into counterfeit physical copies of the credit cards. The states most heavily hit by pump skimming activity include Arizona, California and Florida. Attacks on ATGs in the US accounted for 44 percent of the total number of attacks. Jordan took second place for the most attacks at 17% and Brazil, the UAE, and the UK all tied for third place at 11 percent. A vulnerability exists in the Windows operating system's JScript component that can allow an attacker to execute malicious code on a user's computer. Responsible for discovering this bug is Dmitri Kaslov of Telspace Systems, who passed it along to Trend Micro's Zero-Day Initiative (ZDI), a project that intermediates the vulnerability disclosure process between independent researchers and larger companies. ZDI experts reported the issue to Microsoft back in January, but Microsoft has yet to release a patch for this vulnerability. Yesterday, ZDI published a According to this summary, the vulnerability allows remote attackers to execute malicious code on users' PCs. Because the vulnerability affects the \"The specific flaw exists within the handling of Error objects in JScript,\" ZDI experts explained. \"By performing actions in [Jscript], an attacker can cause a pointer to be reused after it has been freed. An attacker can leverage this vulnerability to execute code under the context of the current process.\" \"Due to the sensitivity of the bug, we don’t want to provide too many technical details until a full fix from Microsoft is available,\" Brian Gorenc, director of Trend Micro's Zero Day Initiative, told Gorenc told us the vulnerability is not as dangerous as it sounds, as it does not allow a full system compromise. \"The flaw only allows code execution within a sandboxed environment,\" Gorenc said. \"An attacker would need additional exploits to escape the sandbox and execute their code on the target system.\" The vulnerability has received a 6.8 rating out of 10 on the CVSSv2 severity scale, which is a pretty high score, when compared to most vulnerabilities. According to Gorenc, a patch is coming. \"To the best of our knowledge, Microsoft does still intend to release a fix for this bug. However, they did not complete the fix within the timelines set out in our disclosure policy.\" ZDI usually gives companies 120 days to patch reported flaws before they go public with their advisories. According to a timeline of Microsoft's replies, the OS maker had a hard time reproducing the proof-of-concept code needed to trigger the vulnerability, losing around 75% of the 120 disclosure timeline, leaving its engineers little time to put together and test a patch in time for May's Patch Tuesday. While Microsoft did not provide an exact timeline of when it plans to roll out a patch, a spokesperson confirmed they are working on a fix. Gorenc added that ZDI was not aware of real-world attempts to exploit this flaw at the time of the disclosure. With little technical details available online, it's most likely to remain so until Microsoft releases fixes. For now, ZDI experts advise users against allowing applications that rely on the JScript component —such as Internet Explorer, wscript.exe, and others— to process untrusted JS code or files. The creators of the encrypted email service, ProtonMail, have released a free version of their ProtonVPN VPN software for macOS. Even though the free version does not contain the full features that you would come to expect from a paid VPN service it is more than capable of obfuscating IP addresses and your location. While ProtonVPN has already released Windows and Android versions, according to Dr. Andy Yen, CEO of ProtonMail, their reason for releasing the free macOS version \"is to make the world a safer place by ensuring that citizens around the world have access to an Internet free of spying and censorship. Releasing a free VPN service for macOS is another important step in that direction.” ProtonVPN offers a free service and paid subscriptions, which are full featured such as multiple devices under one account, TOR routing, higher speeds, and a full range of countries to connect from. The free version on the other hand is supported by donations and the subscriptions of the higher service tiers and has a limited feature set. For example, the free version only has servers in three countries, only allows once device at a time, and has a lower speed. At the same time, if you just wish to browse the web anonymously or circumvent censorship, then this free service should be more than adequate for your needs. Furthermore, ProtonMail  ProtonVPN are well know for their strong adherence to privacy and state that they do not log user's traffic or content and do not discriminate against devices. They also state that since they are located in Switzerland, they are protected by some of the strongest privacy laws in the world. So for those who are looking for strict privacy, anonymity, and the ability to bypass censorship, this free version is a good fit if you do not want to pay for a paid subscription.. A North Korean cyber-espionage group has exploited an ActiveX zero-day to infect South Korean targets with malware or steal data from compromised systems, local media and security researchers have reported. The perpetrators of these attacks are known as the Andariel Group. According to a report authored by South Korean cyber-security firm AhnLab, the Andariel Group is a smaller unit of the larger and more well-known Lazarus Group —North Korea's cyber-espionage apparatus, believed to be a unit of its military. The recent wave of attacks has started last month. Local media reports that Andariel hackers deployed at least nine separate ActiveX vulnerabilities for their attacks, including a new zero-day. The preferred method of action is via watering-hole attacks —hacking legitimate sites, hosting exploit code, and infecting all incoming site visitors until a high-value target is compromised. Andariel attackers usually deploy a backdoor trojan on infected hosts, which they use to search and gather information. \"The zero-day vulnerability has been found in these attacks,\" a government official from the Korea Internet  Security Agency (KISA) North Korean hackers, and particularly the Andariel Group, have a history of using ActiveX vulnerabilities, according to both Operation GoldenAxe. North Korea's cyber attack only on South Korea (using ActiveX vuln) from 2007 to 2018. A South Korean security researcher who did not want his name revealed told Acube is a desktop-based groupware application developed by Samsung's enterprise division. The application is popular with South Korean enterprises, and also supports ActiveX controls. Samsung has released an update to Acube to prevent the exploitation of this zero-day via its application. South Korea's CERT team has also issued a But until more details emerge about this mysterious ActiveX zero-day, the main point to take from these reports is that cyber-attacks carried out by North Korean hackers have continued unabated in spite of the ongoing peace talks between North and South Korean officials. Security experts expected a slowdown of North Korea's cyber-espionage activity in South Korea, similar to the slowdown of Chinese hacking ops after the US and China signed a diplomatic cybersecurity agreement in late 2015. But it has not been so. Five cyber-security vendors —Dell SecureWorks, McAfee, Symantec, FireEye, and Recorded Future— have recently shared their observations of North Korea's recent cyber-activity in a Bleeping Computer has recently covered one of Lazarus Group's most recent hacking campaigns, known as Operation GhostSecret. The US Department of Homeland Security and Federal Bureau of Investigation released a Valve developers have recently patched a severe security flaw that affected all versions of the Steam gaming client released in the past ten years. According to Tom Court, a security researcher with Context Information Security, the one who discovered the flaw, the vulnerability would have allowed an attacker to execute malicious code on any of Steam's 15 million gaming clients. In the jargon of security researchers, this is a remote code execution (RCE) flaw because exploitation was possible via network requests, without needing access to the victim's computer. Court says an attacker was only required to send malformed UDP packets to a target's Steam client, which would have triggered the bug and allowed him to run malicious code on the target's PC. The root cause of this vulnerability is a buffer overflow in one of Steam's many internal libraries —and more specifically in Steam's code that dealt with fragmented UDP datagram reassembly. The Context security researcher says exploitation of this flaw would have been trivial up until July 2017, when Valve added The added security feature made exploitation more difficult, causing only a crash of the Steam client in subsequent editions. Nevertheless, Court says that an attacker would have still been successful at exploiting this bug if he combined the original flaw with an info-leak that exposed the memory location of the Steam app. The issue is now fixed in Steam. Court reported the bug to Valve on February 20, this year, and Valve developers pushed out an initial patch for the Steam beta client within 12 hours. A final fix was released for the main Steam client After giving Steam users almost two months to update, Court has published today a Some of the recent additions to the Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) web standard are so powerful that a security researcher has abused them to deanonymize visitors to a demo site and reveal their Facebook usernames, avatars, and if they liked a particular web page of Facebook. Information leaked via this attack could aid some advertisers link IP addresses or advertising profiles to real-life persons, posing a serious threat to a user's online privacy. The leak isn't specific to Facebook but affects all sites which allow their content to be embedded on other web pages via iframes. The actual vulnerability resides in the browser implementation of a CSS feature named \"The mix-blend-mode feature allows web developers to stack web components on top of each other and add effects for controlling to the way they interact. As the feature's name hints, these effects are inspired by the blend modes found in photo editing software like Photoshop, Gimp, Paint.net, and others. Example blend modes are Overlay, Darken, Lighten, Color Dodge, Multiply, Inverse, and others. The CSS3 mix-blend-mode feature supports 16 blend modes and is fully In The technique relies on luring users to a malicious site where the attacker embeds iframes to other sites. In his example, Habalov embedded iframes for one of Facebook's social widgets, but other sites are also susceptible to this issue. The attack consists of overlaying a huge stack of DIV layers with different blend modes on top of the iframe. These layers are all 1x1 pixel-sized, meaning they cover just one pixel of the iframe. Habalov says that depending on the time needed to render the entire stack of DIVs, an attacker can determine the color of that pixel shown on the user's screen. The researcher says that by gradually moving this DIV \"scan\" stack across the iframe, \"it is possible to determine the iframe’s content.\" Normally, an attacker wouldn't be able to access the data of these iframes due to anti-clickjacking and other security measures implemented in browsers and in the remote sites that allow their content to be embedded via iframes. In two demos Habalov published online (The actual attack takes about 20 seconds to leak the username, 500 milliseconds to check the status of any liked/not-liked page, and around 20 minutes to retrieve a Facebook user's avatar. The attack is easy to disguise because the iframe can easily be moved offscreen, or hidden under another element (see demo gif below, hiding the attack under a cat photo). Furthermore, keeping a user on a site for minutes is also possible by keeping him busy with an online test or a longer article. Habalov reported the bug to Google and Mozilla engineers, who fixed the issue in Chrome 63 and Firefox 60. \"The bug was addressed by Besides Habalov, another researcher named Max May independently discovered and reported this issue to Google 