---
layout: post
title: Cisco Partners: Digital Systems Integrators Modernizing Industrial Networks
date: 2018-06-27 00:02:0
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/manufacturing/cisco-partners-digital-system-integrators-modernizing-industrial-networks
tags: [Group]
---
tttDelivering business outcomes for enterprise and IT buyers requires a new approach, new capabilities, and new relationships. An entirely new business solutions practice. Following the Polytron “Roadmap to Network Solutions,” a network audit was conducted using diagnostics;? a design plan was developed; and a schedule was created for implementation. The Digital System Integrator’s team reviewed the design plan with the manufacturer’s stakeholders for alignment. Alignment with all stakeholder groups was crucial because the network project touched every area of the plant. Support was needed from: manufacturer’s IT support group; all department managers; plant engineering; and control support technicians.  The project required minimal disruptions to plant operations. To accomplish this, the installation and network migration schedules had to be adjusted constantly to align with the plant’s schedule and this DSI made a big difference in achieving the desired outcomes.  Unique Solution – Competitive Advantage – It’s important to point out that ZAG developed the requirements, so it was very easy for them to point out to the client why the incumbent was not able to achieve the same outcome with their solution. Cisco’s account manager John Murnane said, “From an overall perspective it would be difficult to find a partner who does what ZAG does, and this deal wouldn’t have happened if it weren’t for ZAG.” Underutilization Turns into Faster Time to Value – Though Cisco ACI had been implemented, the Cisco Gold Partner recognized that the client was not taking full advantage of it. Production workloads had yet to run in the environment.The partner recommended that the client speak to Xentaurs, a veteran Cisco Digital Systems Integrator (Cisco DSI) partner. Xentaurs uses a proven engagement methodology that drives adoption and utilization of existing Cisco products. They helped outline how the client could save significant operating costs and realize other goals such as application segmentation, faster. By adding Cisco Tetration Analytics, the client could achieve business objectives in 4-6 months versus 18 months. The collaboration and cooperation between the Cisco Gold Partner, Xentaurs, and Cisco were key components to why this deal came together and closed in less than 5 months so that the customer could more quickly begin to achieve the positive impacts of the solution faster. Consider contacting your Cisco DSI ecosystem partner to help expand the opportunity with customers looking for comprehensive business solutions To  We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 