---
title:SynAck Ransomware Adopts Doppelganging Technique To Evade Detection
date:2018-05-09 03:35:38
tourl:http://www.ehackingnews.com/2018/05/synack-ransomware-adopts-doppelganging.html
tags:[law,attack,DNS,DHS]
---
Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Shortly after    The reported deduction differs significantly from the findings of    In stark contrast to the LSOC findings, Corero noticed a spike in distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks around 17 April but said, “Since then, European attacks have remained higher in the second half of the month versus the first half of April and the year as a whole.”  The news that law enforcement agencies had closed down Webstresser.org was a big win for cybercrime fighters. \"But even so, the number of attacks will only decrease temporarily,\" said Onur Cengiz, head of the Link11 security operation center. \"Experience has shown in recent years that for every DDoS attack marketplace taken out, multiple new platforms will pop up like the heads of a hydra.\"  A    According to the Kaspersky Lab DDoS report, Q1 revealed an increased number of DDoS attacks and targets, but there are distinctions among the different attack methods. “Amplified” attacks were beginning to wane but had a bit of a boost in momentum, while network time protocol (NTP) and DNS-based boosting had almost disappeared after most vulnerable services were patched.     DDoS attacks as a means of personal revenge grew more popular in Q1 2018. Also trending were Memcached attacks that resemble a typical DDoS attack; however, according to the Kaspersky report, “Cybercriminals will likely seek out other non-standard amplification methods besides Memcached.”     As server owners patch vulnerabilities, there will be dips in certain types of attacks. “That being the case, DDoS masterminds will likely seek out other amplification methods, one of which could be LDAP services,” the Kaspersky report authors wrote.       \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                  \tTechnology and science in the medical industry was a major focus in the Australian government's 2018-19 Budget, with the government providing AU$106.8 million over four years to modernise Medicare's IT systems.  \tThe funding will also be used to upgrade the systems across the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, aged care, and related payments.  \t\"This measure includes funding for replacing and decommissioning ageing ICT systems, upgrading cybersecurity, and introducing user experience improvements for consumers and providers of health and aged care services,\" the Budget documents said.  \tThe government is also providing AU$28.2 million over five years to upgrade the software system being used to prescribe medicines.  \t\"This measure supports a national electronic prescribing system that will contribute to Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme efficiency, compliance, drug safety, and data collection,\" the government explained.         \t\"The upgrades will make the system more user-friendly and enable prescribers to better identify prescribing options that best meet the needs of their patients, with doctors to retain the final say in advising patients on which medicines to use.\"  \tUnder Improving Access to Medicines: E-prescribing for safer medicines, the Department of Health will get AU$13.7 million in 2018-19, AU$2.8 million in 2019-20, and AU$400,000 in 2020-21; while the Department of Human Services (DHS) gets AU$1.7 million in 2018-19, AU$4.3 million in 2019-20, AU$600,000 in 2020-21, and AU$600,000 in 2021-22.        \tThe government's new 21st Century Medical Industry Growth Plan also gained AU$1.3 billion in funding under the Budget unveiled on Tuesday.  \t\"Tonight we announce a new 21st century medical industry plan to create more jobs in this fast-growing sector of our economy,\" Australian Treasurer Scott Morrison said in his Budget speech.  \t\"Our plan will provide more support for medical research projects, new diagnostic tools, clinical trials of new drugs, scientific collaboration, and development of new medical technologies that can be sold overseas.\"  \tThe plan will ensure Australia is a \"global health industry leader in medical technology, biotechnology, and pharmaceuticals while improving health outcomes for all Australians through investments in medical innovation\", the Budget documents stated.  \tThe funding for the plan was divided into AU$500 million over 10 years for the Genomics Health Futures Mission and AU$707 million to support the Frontier Health and Medical Research program, clinical trials, Biomedtech programs, and Industry Researcher Collaborations.  \tUnder the plan, the government is also looking to spend AU$30 million on enhancing the data sharing and release capabilities of the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare.  \tThe government had also used the 2018-19 Budget to outline its  \tUnder Delivering Australia's Digital Future: Data sharing and release arrangements, AU$20.5 million over four years will be provided to establish a new framework for data sharing in response to the recommendations for an  \tThe framework will be underpinned by legislation and administered by a newly created National Data Commissioner (NDC), with technical guidance and support to be provided by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) to federal agencies on best practices for de-identifying data prior to release.  \t\"A National Data Commissioner will implement and oversee a simpler, safer, and more efficient government data use framework. The National Data Commissioner will be the trusted overseer of the Government data system, responsible for proactively monitoring the integrity of the system and engaging with the community,\" the Budget papers said.  \t\"The NDC will be responsible for developing guidance on data sharing arrangements; monitoring and addressing risks and ethical considerations on data use; and managing the process for high-value datasets.\"  