---
layout: post
title: Almost time for Cisco Live! Here’s What You Can Expect for Retail
date: 2018-06-06 00:02:1
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/retail/almost-time-for-cisco-live-heres-what-you-can-expect-for-retail
tags: [Net]
---
tttCisco Live (June 10This year, we are bringing a fully integrated Retail experience to all corners of the show floor. There is a lot to get excited about, especially if it’s your Go ahead and put yourself in the customers’ shoes. Discover what new digital solutions excite you and retailers alike about the future of Retail, and ultimately which solutions will accelerate your business. Check out our hands on, integrated retail demos at the simulated shopping Retail Experience in Dev Net, featuring the Kinetic ToyBox. Experience retail solutions, powered by the strong foundation of a modern network. Increase employee productivity. Reinvent the customer experience. Simplify store operations. Enhance security and compliance. All so you can delight your customers and strengthen your retail business. Personalization is becoming the norm in retail. Trigger dynamic digital signage to reflect a personal greeting and indicate sensor-activated data using Cisco Vision dynamic digital signage. Launch mobile solutions enabling connected, frictionless customer experiences with our MishiPay mobile payment scan-and-go feature. Putting the customer first is the way to build your brand and keep customers coming back. Empower your employees with the tools and information to inspire the Consumer 2020. Improve your operational efficiency—and your bottom line—with digital solutions for inventory and task management. Check out our CMX-Operational Insights and our Smart Cooler demos to see how generating actionable insights gives retailers the advantage both from in-store activity as well as from digital platforms on how to best know and serve their customers. Digital solutions deliver seamless in-store experiences—potentially at the expense of a store’s security. Initiate real-time IoT data at our ToyBox demo, utilizing Cisco Vision integrated with Cisco’s retail partners Impinj and Sato Global Solutions. Remove merchandise from the shelf area without simulated payment to trigger digital signage and a security alarm. This IoT solution gives retailers a 360-degree view of their inventory on their road to digital transformation.  You can also see retail in action at the Cisco Store located in the Hub. Choose your own adventure as you virtually navigate digital retail solutions recently deployed in the Connected Cisco Store at headquarters. Experience real-time Meraki security solutions and analytics platforms in this fully functional Cisco Store too, separate from the seamless retail experience at the grab-and-go store in the World of Solutions. IoT and Automation offers over $2 Trillion in value to the retail industry through platforms that can optimize operations and improve the customer experience. By using IoT technologies as a foundation, retail customers are automating store operations, enabling mobile-first shopping and driving the omni-channel experience to exponentially increased per-store profitability. This session will deep dive into Cisco’s Retail IoT offers and discuss how you can be a part of our Retail success. Together we will discuss our Retail IoT solutions, their architecturecomponents and our plans for scaling them. Join us for a highly interactivecollaborative session that explores Cisco’s Retail IoT approach.Retailers want a faster and more intelligent network to enable mobile customer experiences, next generation loss prevention platforms and improved cyber security. Learn more about the true power of the partner ecosystem with our ToyBox retail store, and how this experience on our secure intelligent digital platform is unlike what anyone else can deliver. Check out all the retail sessions and demos Can’t make it to Cisco Live this year? We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 