---
layout: post
title: ?KT, LG Uplus propose quantum key standard to ITU
date: 2018-07-30 01:02:12
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/kt-lg-uplus-propose-quantum-key-standard-to-itu/
tags: [Draft,Group]
---
 tKT and LG Uplus have proposed a global standard for quantum key distribution to the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) under the UN, the companies have announced. tThe telcos offered the first draft to ITU's Study Group 13, which works on future networks, focusing on IMT-2020, cloud computing, and trusted network infrastructure. tThe draft includes proposals for network structure and functionality for quantum key distribution, interface between network equipment, and service process technology, KT and LG Uplus said. tCompatriot SK Telecom also reviewed the draft and contributed to the proposal. SK Telecom is preparing to submit quantum key security standards to ITU's Study Group 17, which oversees network security. tKT has been collaborating with government research institutes to develop the technology. tSK Telecom acquired majority stakes intSouth KoreatEarlier this month, the government and telcosSK Telecom has applied its quantum safe system on Deutsche Telekom's trial network and will expand deployment to parts of commercial networks in 2019.With the 3.5GHz and 28GHz spectrum auction complete, the South Korean government and telcos are set to roll out 5G in December. In South Korea's small towns and big cities, the Internet of Things (IoT) is changing everything from utilities to subways to buildings as more municipalities and companies capitalise on new computing and network technologies. KT has applied blockchain technology to its network and vowed to reach 100,000 transactions per second by next year. The telco plans to launch a slew of new platforms in multiple industries that capitalise on the network. As LTE networks become increasingly saturated, mobile network operators are planning for the 5G future. Here is what business professionals and mobile users need to know about 5G.