---
layout: post
title: ?Australia gets interim National Data Commissioner
date: 2018-08-09 11:02:12
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/australia-gets-interim-national-data-commissioner/
tags: [Bill]
---
 tThe federal government has appointed Deborah Anton as Australia's interim National Data Commissioner. tAs commissioner, Anton will be charged with implementing the country's new data sharing and release framework, and will oversee the data sharing and release activities of Commonwealth agencies. tShe will also work closely with the privacy commissioner to help strengthen safeguards around the integrity, management, and use of government-held data. tA statement from Minister for Human Services and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister for Digital Transformation Michael Keenan said Anton has wide-ranging experience in legislation, regulation, policy, and program delivery, which was developed during a career spanning more than 20 years in the Australian Public Service. tThe federal government is hoping to reform the Australian data system, in May announcing that it would bet t"The National Data Commissioner will be the trusted overseer of the public data system," the government said in May. "Realising benefits from data for all Australians needs a powerful champion with a mandate to unlock the productivity benefits of valuable datasets, identify opportunities for improved data use, and build national frameworks and guidelines." tThe Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) will provide technical guidance and support to the National Data Commissioner, and a new National Data Advisory Council will advise the commissioner on "ethical data use, technical best practice, and industry and international developments". t"A cultural change is required from agencies to ensure greater data sharing within government and support for whole-of-government initiatives and reforms," the government said earlier this year in itst t"The new data sharing and release framework will support a drive for cultural change within government towards greater data sharing while mitigating the risks associated with sharing of personal data. t"Better legislative and governance arrangements will ensure government gets the maximum benefits from the data it already holds and collects while maintaining public trust in how data is being used. This will enable government to meet community expectations to be efficient and to use the data it already has more productively." tAnton will be charged with the delivery of atShe will also develop a new framework to improve access to non-sensitive data in a bid to help drive growth and innovation within the Australian economy. tAnton assisted in establishing the Government's Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT). t tThe Australian government's response to the Productivity Commission Data Availability and Use Inquiry has also revealed that it will be standing up a National Data Commissioner to oversee the sharing of data. t tAll major banks will need to make data available on credit and debit card, deposit, and transaction accounts by July 1, 2019, after the federal government accepted the recommendations made by a Review into Open Banking. t tAndrew Stevens has been named as the new 'independent chair' of the Consumer Data Right's Data Standards Body. t tThe Australian government has outlined its approach to a new Data Sharing and Release Bill, which aims to balance sharing data held by government with risk management. t tAustralia is charging headlong into a privacy disaster as government open data initiatives come online without considering how to properly implement privacy safeguards and data anonymity.