---
layout: post
title: ?Opt-out period for My Health Record officially extended until November 15
date: 2018-08-10 11:02:12
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/opt-out-period-for-my-health-record-officially-extended/
tags: [Law]
---
Individuals wishing to opt out of the federal government's My Health Record will have an extra month to do so, with the period for cancelling the digital medical file extended until November 15, 2018. tOriginally, thetOn the first day of the opt-out window,tAccording to a statement from Minister for Health Greg Hunt, extending the opt-out period follows a request from the Australian Medical Association (AMA) and the Royal College of General Practitioners. tHe also said delaying the opt-out period gives Australians "more time to consider their options as we strengthen the 2012 My Health Record legislation". t"The government will amend the 2012 legislation to ensure if someone wishes to cancel their record they will be able to do so permanently, with their record deleted from the system forever," Hunt explained. tAlthough the federal government is automatically signing people up to a My Health Record, and individuals were given the ability to opt out of the service, the information contained within wast tAccording to Hunt, any Australian will be able to opt out of the system permanently at any time in the future, with their record deleted for good. tDespite saying for weeks that policy will trump the legislation backing My Health Record, Hunt announced in late July that the legislation will bet tHe reaffirmed on Friday that the legislation will be strengthened to match ADHA policy, which requires a court order to release any My Health Record information without consent. t"The amendment will ensure no record can be released to police or government agencies, for any purpose, without a court order," the minister continued on Friday. t"The Australian Digital Health Agency's policy is clear and categorical -- no documents have been released in more than six years, and no documents will be released without a court order. This will be enshrined in legislation. t"As the Australian Digital Health Agency has already stated, contrary to incorrect claims made by unions this week, under thet t tThe federal government has been in damage control since the opt-out window opened. tThe opposition took the opportunity to call on the Coalition tot tHunt's statement continues by explaining that under the Act, it is "expressly prohibited", and that using or disclosing a healthcare identifier without authority is an offence and subject to severe penalties, including two years' jail time and a fine of AU$126,000. tDespite promises from both Hunt and Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, there is still serioust t tNo, Minister. It's not just about law enforcement access to digital health records. The Australian government needs to address all the concerns. A media circus in a playground won't help. t tMedical records to be released only with a court order, and a promise of permanent deletion upon record cancellation, were announced on Tuesday night. t tThe ADHA says it'll refuse access to medical records without a court order or warrant. But the law allows that policy to change at any time. t tThose choosing to opt-out of the My Health Record service will still have their data visible if they reactivate their account.