---
layout: post
title: Russia Fends Off 25 Million Cyber-Attacks During World Cup
date: 2018-07-16 13:02:13
tourl: https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com:443/news/russia-fends-off-25-million-world/
tags: [Law,Attack]
---
Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.Russia prevented nearly 25 million cyber-attacks and other criminal acts during the football World Cup, according to the Kremlin. The Moscow Times reported that Russian President Vladimir Putin praised the world of the country's security forces, along with international cooperation, ensuring a safe tournament. “I expect that your close and constructive interaction will continue and will contribute to ensuring the security of our states and our citizens in the future,” Putin was cited as saying.Ahead of the World Cup, a cooperation center staffed by law enforcement officers from 34 countries was opened to monitor potential fan violence. Facilitating coordination between officers from 32 countries - those which qualified for the tournament - the center hosted at least six British police officers, and the hosts of the next World Cup 2022, Qatar.During the World Cup, many organisations have come forward warning of potential risks to attending and non-attending fans. "This threat campaign, called Android/FoulGoal.A, looks like a typical sporting app with general information and background around the games. However, in the background and without user consent, the app silently transfers information to cybercriminals, including victims’ phone numbers, installed apps, device model, and manufacturer, available internal storage capacity, and more."It has also been David Grout, Southern Europe Technical Director, "This included phishing attacks that started several weeks before the tournament and carried on throughout," he explained. "These campaigns use several levers such as low-cost ticket offers, the chance to win a trip to Russia, promotions for items related to the World Cup (national team jerseys, mugs featuring players etc). The main goal in this type of attack is to recover your banking information and force you to go through with the transaction to get the card number information, expiration date and also CCV."There were also risks from state-sponsored groups attempting to destabilse the IT and EO infrastructure used during the World Cup. Historically we’ve seen an acceleration of attacks and leaks of information trying to discredit the actions of an organisation tied to an event, the most notorious example being the APT28 campaign against the world anti-doping agency (WADA)."