title:Navy awards $88M R&D contract
date:2018-05-18 19:01:15
tourl:https://defensesystems.com/articles/2018/05/17/booz-navy-tech-contract.aspx
tags:[Cyber Command,DOD,act,bill,CIO,law]
IoT\r         \r         The Army Corps of Engineers is bringing the internet of things to waste disposal, installing 100 sensors in dumpsters at Fort Carson, Colo.\r \r \r \r Enevo's small, battery-powered, sensors will be put in dumpsters and containers where they will daily collect data on the temperature, tilt, and fill levels, providing data feeds that allow officials to avoid overfilled containers, spot trends and make predictions about future waste collection needs.  The company’s cloud-based platform uses advanced analytics and a dynamic scheduling and routing engine to determine truck routing maps that maximize resource efficiency and minimize travel distances.\r \r \r \r Sensor data will be sent over existing, commercial 3G or the Cat M1 IoT cellular infrastructure specifically designed for machine-to-machine communications. The network will be wholly independent of Army Garrison Information Technology networks.\r \r \r \r Enevo will be installing the sensors and providing six months of cellular subscription service, according to an Army sole-source Enevo's sensors and logistics platform have been deployed in 35 countries -- including a pilot program in Kirkland, Wash., where the city used them to decrease garbage pickups at City Hall.\r About the Author\r                     \r                 \r                     Susan Miller is executive editor at GCN.    Over a career spent in tech media, Miller has worked in editorial, print production and online, starting on the copy desk at IDG’s ComputerWorld, moving to print production for Federal Computer Week and later helping launch websites and email newsletter delivery for FCW. After a turn at Virginia’s Center for Innovative Technology, where she worked to promote technology-based economic development, she rejoined what was to become 1105 Media in 2004, eventually managing content and production for all the company's government-focused websites. Miller shifted back to editorial in 2012, when she began working with GCN.    Miller has a BA from West Chester University and an MA in English from the University of Delaware.    Connect with Susan at Sign up for our newsletter. \t\tI agree to this site's People\r         \r         Maj. Gen. Stephen Fogarty has been confirmed as Army Cyber Command’s next commander.\r  \r \r Fogarty has been the chief of staff for U.S. Cyber Command since 2016. Before then, he was the commanding general for the Cyber Center of Excellence and Fort Gordon in Georgia.\r  \r \r Fogarty’s confirmation was quietly and swiftly pushed through the Senate, moving from an April 9 nomination to confirmation by voice vote on April 26. During his confirmation, the Senate also approved Fogarty’s promotion to lieutenant general. A start date hasn’t yet been determined.\r  \r \r Fogarty will replace Lt. Gen. Paul Nakasone, who became the “This change of command is noteworthy because it signifies the elevation of Cyber Command as our 10th combatant command,” Defense Department spokesperson Dana White told reporters during the weekly briefing May 3.\r  \r \r “The cyber domain will define the next century of warfare,\" White said. \"Just as our military must be prepared to defend our nation against hostile acts from land, air and sea, we must also be prepared to deter, and if necessary, respond to hostile acts in cyberspace.”\r About the Author\r                     \r                 \r                       Prior to joining FCW, Williams was the tech reporter for ThinkProgress, where she covered everything from internet culture to national security issues. In past positions, Williams covered health care, politics and crime for various publications, including The Seattle Times.    Williams graduated with a master's in journalism from the University of Maryland, College Park and a bachelor's in dietetics from the University of Delaware. She can be contacted at Sign up for our newsletter. \t\tI agree to this site's IT Infrastructure\r         \r         The Defense Information Systems Agency will close a data center in St. Louis and eliminate, or realign, 140 civilian positions as part of its ongoing effort to squeeze more efficiency out of its IT operations.\r  \r \r In a May 4 statement, the agency said it would also put data centers in San Antonio, Texas, Europe and Bahrain on \"lights dim\" status, reducing staffing at those locations over the next 30 months.\r  \r \r The agency said the closures and personnel moves are a result of its Computing Ecosystem IT optimization campaign. It made the announcements in a May 3 \"all hands\" meetings between headquarters and the staffs of each data center.\r  \r \r \"The announced changes are part of DISA's ongoing efforts reduce the agency's physical footprint and align with federal data center optimization efforts, while continuing to meet evolving DOD mission requirements,\" the agency said in a statement.\r  \r \r DISA expects $695 million in savings over the next decade because of the closures and personnel realignments and anticipates cost reductions from tighter contract requirements for the operations.\r  \r \r DISA finds itself under increasing However, Capitol Hill sources called DISA's Computing Ecosystem announcement part of the agency's normal operational business and said the reductions weren't drastic. Putting the cuts into a larger perspective, DISA has thousands of employees at its headquarters in Fort Meade, Md., and just 30 full time and 13 contractors at its St. Louis office, the source said.\r \r     DISA launched its Computing Ecosystem program in 2017 to unify far-flung computing centers and optimize resources and capabilities across the agency.\r About the Author\r                     \r                 \r                      Before joining FCW, Rockwell was Washington correspondent for Government Security News, where he covered all aspects of homeland security from IT to detection dogs and border security. Over the last 25 years in Washington as a reporter, editor and correspondent, he has covered an increasingly wide array of high-tech issues for publications like Communications Week, Internet Week, Fiber Optics News, tele.com magazine and Wireless Week.  Rockwell received a Jesse H. Neal Award for his work covering telecommunications issues, and is a graduate of James Madison University.  Sign up for our newsletter. \t\tI agree to this site's Congress\r         \r         The House Armed Services Committee conducted its annual slog through hundreds of amendments to come up with a bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act starting in the morning of May 9 and continuing past midnight.\r  \r \r After 14 hours of debate, the committee reported the $716 billion bill, including 248 amendments, favorably on a 60-1 vote. Hawaii Democrat Tulsi Gabbard was the lone holdout.\r  \r \r On the IT front, Rep. Anthony Brown (D-Md.) looked to counter the committee chairman's proposal to trim the Pentagon's \"fourth estate\" -- the defense agencies that provide back office support and services.\r  \r \r Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-Texas) had originally looked to eliminate the Defense Information Systems Agency and the Washington Headquarters Service. The bill proposed by the chairman called for leaving such cuts up to the Department of Defense chief management officer.\r  \r \r Brown's amendment proposed a report from the secretary of defense, the CMO, CIO and others by March 1, 2020 in advance of any consolidation. Brown, concerned with the impact of the potential job loss, said \"It remains unclear what would happen to DISA's missions and functions.\"\r  \r \r Thornberry said it is \"important\" for the committee \"to take a look at those [DOD] agencies that aren't a part of the [services],\" and their growing budgets. DISA's is up 13 percent, he said.\r  \r \r \"I'm a little more prescriptive in that I want to [see] how will this go,\" Thornberry said before opposing the amendment, which the committee declined to adopt.\r  \r \r Some committee members expressed concern about a proposed 25 percent cut to supporting agencies and functions including IT, personnel management and logistics. Additionally, a proposal by Thornberry to eliminate the Test Resource Management Center was voted down.\r \r     Several amendments aimed at improving cyber education and increasing cyber defenses sailed through committee.\r  \r \r Rep. Salud Carbajal's (D-Calif.) amendment to approve the Army National Guard's cyber training pilot program passed. The measure would allow concurrent training of cyber protection teams and cyber network defense teams using a common standard. The program would also integrate training between the guard, law enforcement and emergency personnel.\r  \r \r The amendment would have Army National Guard members embedded with federal and state government departments and agencies to help facilitate cooperative cyber defenses across the government, making training more cohesive and efficient.\r  \r \r Another, championed by Rep. Jimmy Panetta (D-Calif.) would require the acquisition and sustainment undersecretary to brief the committee on the effect of expanding the Hacking for Defense Retired Army Col. Peter Newell, managing partner of consulting firm BMNT Partners told FCW ahead of the markup that the program \"should be an intramural sport in the Army.\"\r  \r \r The 2018 NDAA approved $15 million for the defense secretary to expand Hacking for Defense but the funds weren't appropriated in time, Newell said. This year, he hopes the funding is there to expand its role to more universities.\r  \r \r The HASC also passed a provision allowing the defense secretary to put a cyber institute at each senior military college and offer certificates and degree programs in cyber, data science, and cryptography.\r  \r \r Other measures called for reports on cybersecurity risks to autonomous systems, progress on automated cyber defense capabilities and the use of autonomous intelligence and machine learning in offensive cyber operations.\r About the Author\r                     \r                 \r                       Prior to joining FCW, Williams was the tech reporter for ThinkProgress, where she covered everything from internet culture to national security issues. In past positions, Williams covered health care, politics and crime for various publications, including The Seattle Times.    Williams graduated with a master's in journalism from the University of Maryland, College Park and a bachelor's in dietetics from the University of Delaware. She can be contacted at Sign up for our newsletter. \t\tI agree to this site's Defense IT\r         \r         Government IT product reseller Insight Public Sector has won a three-year, $653.2 million blanket purchase agreement to supply Microsoft brand-name software licenses and cloud computing tools to the Department of the Navy.\r \r \r \r The Navy received four offers for the BPA via the General Services Administration’s E-Buy website after sending the solicitation to 895 vendors. This BPA was issued as part of the DON Enterprise Software Licensing effort and policy and guidelines established under the Defense Department’s Enterprise Software Initiative, DOD said in its Friday contracts digest.\r \r \r \r Defense agencies such as the Navy use enterprise licensing arrangements such as this one to consolidate agreements with IT product makers and resellers for commercial products and services.\r \r \r \r Products covered under the agreement with Insight Public Sector include desktop software, operating systems, server software, desktop sharing, virtualization, client access licenses, developer tools, management tools, mobility, utility and software assurance.\r \r \r \r The BPA has a three-year ordering period through May 2021 and Insight Public Sector will perform the work under its GSA Federal Supply Schedule contract.\r About the Author\r                     \r                 \r                     Sign up for our newsletter. \t\tI agree to this site's Defense\r         \r         In a May 7 report to Congress ordered in the omnibus spending bill, the Pentagon defended plans to acquire cloud computing capabilities to support military operations and warfighting under a single-award contract.\r  \r \r The JEDI (Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure) plan has proved controversialDefense Secretary James Mattis tried to A final request for proposals for cloud vendors is expected to land this month, with an award due in September.\r  \r \r The single-award contract is needed, accord to the report, to avoid the pace of a multiple-award contract followed by individual task orders.\r  \r \r \"That pace could prevent DOD from rapidly delivering new capabilities and improved effectiveness to the warfighter that enterprise-level cloud computing can enable,\" the report from Pentagon Chief Management Officer John Gibson II states.\r  \r \r The report also asserts that \"inconsistent and non-standardized infrastructures across classification levels complicates development and distribution of software applications, potentially adding delays and costs\" and potentially inhibiting the use of advanced technologies like artificial intelligence and machine learning.\r \r     The report is also critical of the federated cloud adoption practice currently in place at DOD. There are more than 500 cloud acquisition and migration efforts, the report notes, which are \"reminiscent of DOD's current legacy information technology environment, which is not optimized for the 21The decentralized move to the cloud has \"created numerous seams, incongruent baselines and additional layers of complexity for managing data and services at an enterprise level,\" the report states. \"Scattering DOD's data across a multitude of clouds further inhibits the ability to access and analyze critical data.\"\r  \r \r While there's no specific budget request for the JEDI program, the DOD is seeking $393 million for cloud computing in fiscal year 2019, up from $230 million in 2018. That is expected to expand to $500 million in 2020, before dropping to what appears to be a sustainment level budget of about $250 million from 2021 through 2023. Overall, the five-year spend is pegged at $1.6 billion.\r  \r \r The report also states that JEDI can work in harmony with milCloud 2.0 from the Defense Information Systems Agency, with milCloud offering a kind of cost-saving staging area for defense agencies looking to reduce hosting costs. Currently defense agencies known collectively as the \"fourth estate\" are being prioritized for migration to milCloud 2.0, the report states.\r  \r \r Once JEDI is in place, the Navy, Marine Corps, Transportation Command and the Defense Media Activity will act as trailblazers to test the Pentagon's ability to provision and manage cloud migration and activity.\r  \r \r The report also stresses that the JEDI acquisition strategy includes an exit plan in case the initial contract doesn't work out as planned. The base ordering period on the deal is expected to be two years, and the winning vendor will be required to have a \"detailed portability plan\" to move and destroy applications and data as necessary.\r About the Author\r                     \r                 \r                     \r Before joining the editing team, Mazmanian was an FCW staff writer covering Congress, government-wide technology policy and the Department of Veterans Affairs. Prior to joining FCW, Mazmanian was technology correspondent for National Journal and served in a variety of editorial roles at B2B news service SmartBrief. Mazmanian has contributed reviews and articles to the Washington Post, the Washington City Paper, Newsday, New York Press, Architect Magazine and other publications.\r  \r Sign up for our newsletter. \t\tI agree to this site's Defense IT\r         \r         Leidos has won a potential three-year, $239.5 million task order to support the overall IT environment of the Army Corps of Engineers.\r  \r \r Services will encompass 37,000 users worldwide over one base year and up to two option years. The order was awarded against the General Services Administration’s Alliant 1 contract, Leidos said Thursday.\r  \r \r The company plans to partner with other large and small businesses in order to help the Corps get both the technology and technical expertise needed for agile and responsive IT support services round-the-clock.\r  \r \r Work will take place across the country. Leidos currently holds prime contracts for professional services with more than half of the Corps’ 13 districts. The company has worked with the Corps for more than 33 years.\r About the Author\r                     \r                 \r                     Sign up for our newsletter. \t\tI agree to this site's Emerging Tech\r         \r         Booz Allen Hamilton has received a five-year, $88.3 million contract to help the Navy research and develop new technologies across multiple domains in an effort to rapidly get end products to warfighters for immediate operational use.\r  \r \r The initiative supports the Navy's Rapid Capability Engineering and Integration Department, Ship and Air Integrated Warfare Division. Booz Allen was the lone bidder for the contract, the Defense Department said in its Wednesday contracts digest.\r  \r \r Domains covered under the contract include airborne, land-based, mobile sea-based surface and sub-surface systems. Booz Allen could also help work on systems and subsystems used for so-called \"C5ISR\" technologies -- command, control, communications, computers, cyber, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance.\r  \r \r Additional contractor services will include engineering, quality management, cybersecurity and technical management support services. Work will take place through September 2023.\r About the Author\r                     \r                 \r                     Sign up for our newsletter. \t\tI agree to this site's 