---
layout: post
title: Effective Social Engineering Matters More than Zero-Days
date: 2018-07-20 13:02:17
tourl: https://blog.knowbe4.com/effective-social-engineering-matters-more-than-zero-days
tags: [Remote Access Tools,Source,Draft]
---
There's an interesting criminal campaign in progress against government targets in Ukraine. Note that we usually first see them there, and then they spread out to Western Europe and the US. So here is your heads-up.It's not particularly advanced from a technical point of view. It doesn't rely on zero-days. And the actors behind the campaign don't seem to have a high level of technical skill.They've shown considerable skill in picking their targets, using commodity malware, and baiting their phish-hooks with the kinds of document titles likely to attract a bite.ESET researchers have analyzed three remote access tools used against government agencies in Ukraine. The tools are "Quasar," "Sobaken," and "Vermin." ESET describes the campaign as "criminal espionage" using RATs to access and exfiltrate sensitive files from government systems.Quasar is an open-source remote access tool easily found on GitHub. Sobaken is closely related to Quasar, but in its case the commodity malware has been modified to have a smaller footprint by removing some functionality to leave room for additional evasive and anti-sandboxing techniques.Vermin is a custom backdoor that first appeared in 2016. Like Quasar and Sobaken, it's written in .Net, with its code protected to some extent against analysis through the use of commercial or open-source protectors.None of the three RATs are particularly sophisticated, but they're effectively constructed and intelligently deployed. They're spread principally by social engineering, with the payload typically carried by a maliciously crafted document transmitted as an attachment to an email.According to ESET, the attackers' skills aren't especially advanced, and they don't appear to have access to zero-days. The file names in the attachments are designed to be attractive to the recipients.Some examples the researchers provide are, as translated, "Directive on providing security for military personnel of Ukrainian Army and their family members," "A new draft of directive regarding verification of seizure," and "Purchasing department Don OVK. Increase of credit limit."So the documents appear to be the sort of low-level policies and pre-decisional documents organizations often circulate by email. Once the payloads are in, the victims are subjected to audio recording, keylogging, password theft, and theft of files from USB drives that may be connected to the infected computer.Some of the techniques are worth noting. One, for example, is their use of right-to-left override in Unicode filenames. Thus an executable with an xcod.scr extension can be coupled with a Word icon to look like a docx file.Another technique is to disguise malicious content as a self-extracting RAR archive. The attackers flirted with steganography for a while, but then discarded that approach as unnecessary. Simpler methods worked fine.The ESET researchers' conclusion is worth quoting: "The fact that the attackers successfully used relatively trivial techniques, such as sending RAR and EXE files by email (a bad practice, which still takes place among users) highlights the importance of securing the human factor in computer network protection."This is the sort ofTopics: Š KnowBe4, Inc. All rights reserved. | 