---
layout: post
title: Challenge accepted: 15-year-old plays Doom on 'unhackable' Bitfi
date: 2018-08-09 11:02:12
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/challenge-accepted-15-year-old-hacking-prodigy-plays-doom-on-unhackable-bitfi/
tags: [Group,Hack]
---
 tBitfi, a supposedly "unhackable" wallet for cryptocurrency transactions and trading, prompted glee and mockery over the last week. tAs the company, backed by John McAfee, staunchly defended its product as completely unhackable, the mere phrase used was enough for security researchers worldwide to take the bait. tIt tooktThe company may have claimed that the device's security is "absolute," but after the offer of a $250,000 bug bounty to any that could break the system -- despite the need for bounty hunters to buy the device in order to participate -- it did not take long for reports to appear of successful hacks. tPen Test Partners dubbed the Bitfi as a "cut-down Android phone," and were able to secure root access, Oversoft discovered a suite of Baidu apps including trackers which should not be there, and another group of researchers posted Bitfi's vendor and ROM system partitions on PasteBin. ttJokingly, Ryan Castellicco said that the device was poor enough that "someone will probably have Doom running on it by Friday." tWell, that prediction has come true. t t15-year-old Saleem Rashid, something akin to a hacking prodigy, has demonstrated that despite claims of being unhackable, Doom runs perfectly fine on the device. tIn a videotIt is true that no-one has managed to take coins from the device itself yet, a point being clung tot tHowever, it appears there may be more to this than simply baiting Bitfi. tTwitter user 'Abe Snowman,' systems engineer,tWhen challenged by a user over the lack of coin theft, the engineer said: tThe engineer later added: tWhether considered a party trick or a true hack, the game being installed on a device used for financial authorization which claims "fortress-like security" is still a concern. tIt will be interesting to see what comes out of the party hat next.