---
layout: post
title: ?Australian government takes Govpass hosting internal
date: 2018-08-10 11:02:12
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/australian-government-takes-govpass-hosting-internal/
tags: [DHS]
---
 tThe federal government has decided to take the hosting element of its digital identification play, Govpass, in-house, ending the contract with cloud services provider Vault Systems as a result. tA spokesperson for the Digital Transformation Agency (DTA), the government entity charged with Govpass, told ZDNet that Vault Systems, operating as the wholesale provider for Gulanga, was engaged for a period of 12 months and that the contract has since lapsed. tVault was charged from January 2017 with providing a hosting environment for the digital identity system prototypes. tThe company, which is accredited by the Australian Signals Directorate (ASD) at at t"Privacy and protection of personal information is at the heart of the DTA's work on digital identity. Building trust in how the government stores personal data is not something we compromise on,"t t"Vault's open standards cloud has been the perfect solution for Govpass, providing a level of security and sovereignty that is a critical to making the process of proving who you are to government simple, safe, and secure." tAlready responsible for operating the digital identity system's components, the Department of Human Services (DHS) and the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) have now assumed responsibility for hosting the components that Vault previously had. t tFacing Senate Estimates in November, DTA CDO Peter Alexander revealed the ATO, DHS, and Australia Post would bet t"They hold a lot of identity data already," Alexander said. "It could easily be extended to jurisdictional providers and commercial providers, who are talking to banks, the Australian payment network, and others who can provide identity." tThe ATO has suffered a handful of outages over the past 18 months, fromt t"Generally speaking, the capability of the Australian government and the Australian Public Service to deliver good technology solutions has been pretty sound," Alexander said. "We have had some issues, of course, and very well publicised ones ... I would not describe them as systemic. I would say they are outliers. t"We have invested in technology and made technology choices which are less flexible than would be ideal, and have proven to be significantly complicated to change and adjust. t"The way we would describe it is that they are not agile systems when we need to make a change, particularly in our big service delivery agencies, the changes have been complicated." tSoon, Australians will be able to receive the government-accredited Govpass, with the first pilott tRevealedtAustralians are able to complete their TFN application online, but this needs to be printed and taken along with identity documents to an Australia Post Office to be finalised. There are 750,000 applications for TFNs each year. tIn a pilot starting from March 2019, services including grants management, business registration, student services, and some Centrelink services are expected to become available, and the DTA anticipates that around 2.8 million transactions will be moved online as a result of this. tThe DTA spokesperson said it continues to use Vault for hosting in relation to other projects and initiatives. t tThe first of several pilot programs using a beta version of a myGovID will begin in October, the federal government confirmed on Tuesday. t tThe Australian government is looking for a provider to deliver an identity-matching solution for Govpass, one that can prove the person on the end of the camera is real. t tLike LinkedIn, but for important identity verification activities. t tRather than including banks, the DTA has selected a pair of government departments, one responsible for the robo-debt debacle and the other dealing with consistent IT outages, and a postal service that wants voting to occur via the blockchain.