---
layout: post
title: Do Your Best Teamwork with Webex Teams
date: 2018-06-06 00:02:10
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/collaboration/best-teamwork-webex-teams
tags: [Group]
---
tttI recently led a project to develop a hands-on product demonstration for customers.  A group of us across the United States and India worked together to create demos. I started the project by creating a space in With the recent Yet, the This means a single person is no longer responsible for meeting set up, start, control, and follow up. In Webex Teams, meetings begin when the first person joins — no more waiting on the host. Anyone can record. Anyone can mute noisy participants. And anything shared during the meeting lives on in the connected space so everyone can easily reference what was shared later.For our project, the impact of democratized teamwork and meetings helped drive broader team engagement. This not only helped me spend less time managing the team and our communications, but it also improved our brainstorming and problem-solving.Improved thinking is an addition to effective teamwork, but this project required more than just good ideas. We needed a blueprint to ensure that we could implement our ideas at scale. And we wanted the ability to visualize the customer journey across every touchpoint.We mapped out our final plan on the We had our plan and we were ready.  And our first event went off without a hitch! At Cisco, we are fortunate to have Webex Boards in many of our meeting rooms. But for teams that use a mix of video devices, Webex Teams meetings let you expand the whiteboarding experience to other cloud-connected Cisco video devices. For IT managers, this can help both increase adoption and build user satisfaction while amplifying current investments.Participants joining from other devices can engage in whiteboarding sessions during a team meeting. For example:Try the expanded whiteboarding experience and see how it fuels continuous teamwork anytime, anywhere with Webex Teams.Get the We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 