---
layout: post
title: The Types of Hackers & Why They Hack
date: 2018-07-13 11:02:12
tourl: https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/the-types-of-hackers-and-why-they-hack/
tags: [Hack]
---
Originally, a While some hackers develop various types of tools and applications with which people can secure themselves, others spend time painstakingly looking for and reporting vulnerabilities and malware. Others still spend their time creating malware and cooking up schemes to acquire other people’s money.Hence, a hacker may hack for malicious or favorable purposes, but even a well-intentioned hacker can be led In the beginning, most hackers were motivated by curiosity, learning and challenges. In most cases there was no malicious intent. As technology progressed, however, opportunities for financial gain through illegal activity, burgeoned, from which arose criminal hacking enterprises which are run similar to any other business.Green Hat Hackers are also newbie hackers, but unlike script kiddies green hats have the drive to become more advanced hackers. Due to their curiosity, they are self-motivated and spend hours learning, practicing and improving upon their skills.Blue Hat Hackers are vindictive script kiddies who hack as a way of exacting revenge against their enemies.There is a fine line between hacker types, however, as someone may work as a white hat by day and engage in black hat activities at night. Script kiddies and white, black and gray hats can all be found in a hacktivist collective, such as Anonymous. A black hat may engage in illegal activities for a living, while also being involved in hacktivism, essentially as a hobby. And, some black hat hackers move on to the ethical hacking arena as can be seen at computer security conventions such as Collateral damage can result from hacktivism, as various "ops" are well-intentioned, but not always well thought out, so innocent people can end up being harmed.  Additionally, some hacktivists are driven less by the desire to effect positive change in the world and more by fame seeking or feelings of jealously or resentment in regard to their target. While there are well-documented instances of hacktivism yielding positive results, hacktivism sometimes morphs into predatory behavior.The “...the sense of idealism and an overwhelming belief in the power of technology to set right the ills of the society is real and drives many young coders. Hackers tend to have an acute, heightened sense of what is right and what is wrong, and much of their behaviour is based on how they interpret what they see as injustice or unfairness. This heightened sense of social injustice is one of the characteristics that underpins many hackers, but that can turn into something predatory.”Currently, there is a significant shortage of hackers or cybersecurity professionals who are employed by businesseses and governments, including militaries.  This shortage is expected to continue well into the future and businesses and governments are attempting to fill the void by engaging elementary school children, offering funding for earning a degree in a related field and paying high salaries in order to attract top talent.