---
layout: post
title: Hide and Seek IoT Botnet resurfaces with new tricks, persistence
date: 2018-05-30 00:02:1
tourl: https://labs.bitdefender.com/2018/05/hide-and-seek-iot-botnet-resurfaces-with-new-tricks-persistence/
tags: [attack]
---
On April 30, Bitdefender researchers became aware of a new version of the Hide and Seek bot Historically, the botnet infected close to 90,000 unique devices from the time of discovery until today, with ups and downs on each update.The new samples identified in late April don’t add functionality, but feature plenty of improvements on the propagation side. For instance, the new binaries now include code to leverage two new vulnerabilities (more about this The sample discovered also targets several generic devices. Infected victims scan for neighbouring peers for the presence of the telnet service. As soon as the telnet service is found, the infected device attempts to bruteforce acces. If the login succeds, the malware restricts access to port 23 to potentially prevent a competing bot from hijacking the device.This attack avenue targets a wide range of devices and architecture. Our research shows that the bot has Once the infection has been performed successfully, the malware copies itself in the It subsequently opens a random UDP port that is propagated to the neighboring bots. This port will be used by the cyber-criminals to get in touch with the device.The supported command list has not changed significantly from the previous version of the bot. There is still no support for DDoS attacks (one of the most frequently encountered features of IoT bots), which leaves extremely little room for monetizing the botnet. However, the bot itself can still exfiltrate files using the method Based on the evidence at hand, we presume that this botnet is in the growth phase, as operators are trying to seize as many devices as possible before adding weaponized features to the binary.The samples we used for this piece of research are identified as Bogdan Botezatu is living his second childhood at Bitdefender as senior e-threat analyst. When he is not documenting sophisticated strains of malware or writing removal tools, he teaches extreme sports such as surfing the web without protection or rodeo with wild Trojan horses. He believes that most things in life can be beat with strong heuristics and that antimalware research is like working for a secret agency: you need to stay focused at all times, but you get all the glory when you catch the bad guys.tttttttt9ef7ed8af988d61b18e1f4d8c530249a1ce76d69tttttttttttttttttttt