---
layout: post
title: Collaboration at #CLUS, Day 1: Technology and Optimism
date: 2018-06-12 00:02:1
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/collaboration/clus18-day-1
tags: [Chaos]
---
tttMonday busy Monday. Cisco Live 2018 is officially underway. For some, the pre-conference meetings and certification testing started yesterday, but the main event kicked off this morning. Today included the opening keynote, the unveiling of the World of Solutions and DevNet Zone, and sessions, sessions, sessions.Cisco Chairman and CEO Chuck Robbins started his remarks with optimism: “We see the network as an exponential force for good.”Optimism threaded through his comments as he focused on how by we can do amazing things by combining technology and our collective efforts. Of course, for me, that screams “collaboration” loud and clear. More than 400 million more people connected to the internet in the last year. That creates opportunity, not just jobs, but education, healthcare, community, and more.Multiple guests joined Chuck on stage Google Cloud CEO Diane Green. It’s good to hear from the execs behind some of the major industry collaboration efforts. Likewise, guests from Children’s Hospital Los Angeles shared a great story about how Cisco technology is helping support the delivery of life-changing care. (See the case study video at the end of the post.)In his presentation, he covered five key areas that the latest, greatest advancements in collaboration technology address.Watch Jonathan’s full presentation – and catch the post-session interview — above.With almost 1 million square feet of space to explore, there’s plenty to do. In addition to the normal booth chaos, it’s the home of the Social Media Hub, DevNet Zone, and some of the different theaters. The Cisco campus is set up differently this year. Instead of being organized by technology, it’s more oriented about how and where you use the technology. For example, you’ll find a lot of the collaboration gear in the “Employee and Customer Experience” areas as well as the “Branch” space. It puts our products in context with other technologies you’d implement with them. Kinda cool.David Goeckler, EVP and General Manager, Networking and Security Business,  will deliver the technology keynote at 10:30 a.m., ET. If you’re not live in Orlando, catch it online on the Make a difference while you’re here at #CLUS. Visit the Social Impact zone and spend an hour doing good for people in need.Want videos and other good stuff from the Cisco Live event team? Check out the Meanwhile, check out what’s happening at Children’s Hospital Los Angeles.We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 