---
layout: post
title: SmartFrame aims to replace jpegs to help companies protect and monetize images
date: 2018-07-13 01:02:12
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/smartframe-aims-to-replace-jpegs-to-help-companies-protect-and-monetize-images/
tags: [AWS]
---
An example of how a SmartFrame image could look. For a working example of the image, visit the SmartFrame Technologies Ltd, a London-based start-up, wants to replace jpeg images with an interactive format that makes them easier to track, easier to monetize, and harder to steal. Users can't simply right-click images and save them. They may still be able to share photos online or by email, but only if the image owner allows that. Wildlife photographer David Yarrow is already using the system. Prints of Yarrow's In fact, Pixelrights - Ultimately this has resulted in two separate companies, with each inheriting one of the original co-founders.While the idea of replacing jpegs is a simple attention-grabber, SmartFrame's system is a lot more complicated than posting a smartphone snapshot to Facebook, Instagram or Snapchat. There are several parts to the system.To start with, SmartFrame images are encrypted, and can only be rendered by the SF viewer component on demand, not by any software on the user's PC or other device. Images are served from Amazon AWS and displayed using canvas in the browser, so they're invisible to image search engines. However, tailored thumbnails can be included for search engines use, and for sharing on social networks.SmartFrame images are interactive. For example, you can have text or a logo appear after five seconds of viewing, and provide buttons to share images or go straight to a shop to buy something. The In the background, SmartFrame's The In the future, image providers will be able to select "hot spots" that, SmartFrame says, "can be linked directly to expanded content, webpages, videos or e-commerce stores".Images are managed via the For example, a fashion photograph could have half a dozen hot-spots that provide information about items of clothing and accessories, and perhaps the opportunity to buy them.SmartFrame says it has worked with the Digital Media Licensing Association (DMLA), Sodatech (a leading supplier of digital asset management and e-commerce platforms for photo agencies and publishers) and Digimarc (which does digital watermarking and brand protection, among other things.Photo agencies, photographers, advertisers, publishers and other large companies are currently trying to control the use of their images in all sorts of different ways. SmartFrame is developing an off-the-shelf system that can be used without requiring advanced technical knowledge or programming skills.