---
layout: post
title: 'Unhackable' Bitfi crypto-currency wallet maker will be shocked to find fingernails exist
date: 2018-08-02 11:02:15
tourl: /2018/08/01/unhackable_bitfi_wallet/
tags: [Hack,Attack,exploit]
---
The $120 Wi-Fi-connected It was thus launched last week with some bold claims: it was the "most sophisticated instrument in the world" offering "fortress-like security" for your electronic coins. Its phone-like device is "the world’s first unhackable device", the manufacturer announced – to some mockery by security experts.The biz even got John McAfee to play along. He Having received acres of press coverage, the company then offered its own "A spokesperson for Bitfi was not available for immediate comment.First off, the "most sophisticated instrument in the world" turns out to be nothing more than a cheap touchscreen Android phone with some components pulled out, particularly the cellular connectivity stuff. It's powered by a So now we have pictures of the bare The bounty program also turns out to be very different to what you would imagine. The company has given very specific requirements over what constitutes a legitimate hack: you have to receive a Bitfi phone loaded with $50 in crypto-coins using an unknown passphrase, and get the coins off that device.Which sounds reasonable, and also serves to flag the one aspect of the Bitfi that is a genuine security plus: it doesn't store the actual key used to access the crypto-currencies on the device itself.However, the bounty doesn't reflect reality. As infosec probester Andrew Tierney "The bounty deliberately only includes only one attack: key recovery from a genuine, unaltered device. And the device doesn’t store the key," Tierney wrote over the weekend."The only way to win the bounty is to recover a key from a device which doesn’t store a key. There are many, many more attacks such a device is vulnerable to. The most obvious one: modifying the device so that it records and sends the key to a malicious third party. But this is excluded from the bounty. Why is this? Because the bounty is a sham."Indeed, the bounty does not cover the scenario of someone intercepting shipments of the devices, backdooring them, and then siphoning off coins from victims – a genuine supply chain problem. Nor devices being stolen, tampered with, and then returned without a victim knowing, allowing the wallet to be emptied. Again, another legitimate concern given this is supposedly "unhackable."Despite the claims of "faultless, impenetrable security," it turns out that the Bitfi phone is very far from an unhackable wallet.Crucially, it has no anti-tamper measures, meaning the back can be popped off using your fingernails, the hardware reprogrammed or bugged, the case closed up again, and the handheld handed to a victim. Once the mark taps in their passphrase, whatever backdoor you've built into the thing can phone those details home over the internet for you to exploit.We know this because within a week of the gadget being launched – and just a few days after security researchers received their specially repurposed phones – they started 