---
layout: post
title: Windows 10 moves closer to killing off passwords with Edge WebAuthn logins
date: 2018-07-31 13:02:11
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/windows-10-moves-closer-to-killing-off-passwords-with-edge-webauthn-logins/
tags: [Group,WebAuthn]
---
Microsoft had a hidden surprise in its Edge still gets replaced by Chrome as the default browser on most Windows 10 devices, but soonit will be gaining a new and probably exclusive Windows Hello authentication feature that could make it a preferable browser for signing in to frequently visited sites. WebAuthn, short for Web Authentication, is a W3C specification developed in conjunction with the FIDO Alliance, the group that developed the specification to let users sign in to websites using a security key, like Yubico's Yubikey. The catch was that the only browser that supported it was Google Chrome. WebAuthn has bigger goals but importantly it is already supported in various stages by Mozilla's Firefox, Google Chrome, and Microsoft Edge. The spec WebAuthn will, on supported websites, allow users to sign in using a security key like the Yubikey USB or NFC keys or It allows devices to sign in via USB, Bluetooth Low Energy, or NFC.Firefox 60's addition of WebAuthn offered a peek at what things could be like in future when website support is broader; Dropbox, which already allowed Chrome users to sign in with Yubikey as a second factor, Chrome 67 added WebAuthn support too. In simple terms, it will allow users to register key pairs with a WebAuthn-supported website and a security device.Microsoft "Obviously Microsoft doesn't have a smartphone platform for future uses of WebAuthn aimed at consumers, but it hasn't been shy of creating a bunch of apps across Android and iOS of late that make it easier to connect them with Windows 10 devices. Either way, the justification for its support is pretty plain to understand. People plus passwords equals a potential security disaster, as seen by the "We trust websites to process credit-card numbers, save addresses and personal information, and even to handle sensitive records like medical information," said Microsoft. "All this data is protected by an ancient security model -- the password. But passwords are difficult to remember, and are fundamentally insecure -- often reused, and vulnerable to phishing and cracking."Browser makers take an important step in reducing the need for passwords and all the security threats they bring.If you trust Google, this is the second-factor security key for you.Firefox becomes first browser to support the Web Authentication API, taking the world closer to no-password logins.Microsoft's Windows 10 Insider test build 17682 adds new RSAT tool option. Meanwhile, Microsoft is adding parental controls to its Launcher and Edge apps for Android.Microsoft wants to banish 'inconvenient, insecure, and expensive' passwords. So what's going to replace them?Admins can now significantly reduce the risk of accounts being compromised by password-spraying attacks.Go directly to the login screen. Do not pass the lock screen. Do not view any pretty pictures.