---
layout: post
title: Spain’s La Liga app uses fans’ phones to detect illegal soccer broadcasts
date: 2018-06-12 00:02:6
tourl: https://www.welivesecurity.com/2018/06/12/spains-la-liga-app-phones-detect-illegal/
tags: [Source,Tick]
---
La Liga says that the functionality requires the userÂ’s express consent and that it is only intended to detect unauthorized broadcasts of soccer games.tttttttttttttttThe organization behind SpainÂ’s top-flight soccer league known as La Liga has added a functionality to its La LigaÂ’s official app (Source: Google Play)It has turned out that, after being downloaded or updated, the app asks the user for permission to access their smartphoneÂ’s microphone and geolocation service (GPS). This, in and of itself, isnÂ’t that unusual. The devil is in the detail, however.If the user grants their permission, La Liga receives the ability to activate remotely the phoneÂ’s microphone in order to record audio clips of the handsetÂ’s surroundings. In doing so, the app seeks to ascertain if the captured sound corresponds to that of the broadcast of a soccer game. At the same time, by turning on the phoneÂ’s geolocation service it can pinpoint the location of the place where the recording was made and, thus, identify the establishment that may be showing the game without a license.In fact, users signing up for the app are presented with The two tick boxes when a user signs up for the app (Source: Jorge Morell on Twitter)La LigaÂ’s governing body, LFP, said in its LFP also stressed that the functionality is subject to the userÂ’s express approval and that it can be turned on only during the leagueÂ’s matches. Additionally, it said the app will remind the users of the functionality on a regular basis and ask for confirming their consent.In an effort to further ease privacy concerns, La Liga said that it doesnÂ’t access the captured audio snippet, as the snippet is instead automatically converted into a binary code on the device itself. The code is then compared to a reference database and, if thereÂ’s no match between the two, the former code is discarded. The organization stressed that there is no way to turn the code back into the actual content of the recording.Regardless, the tactic has The 2017-18 La Liga season actually concluded in May and the new one doesnÂ’t kick off until August. The app Â– which has accumulated more than 10 million downloads from Google Play Â– has now set its sights on the FIFA World Cup. Â“In this version you can enjoy the Russia 2018 World Cup. Do not miss any details with the Official App,Â” reads the appÂ’s Â“WhatÂ’s newÂ” section.Online threats that may lie in wait for you (not only) around the upcoming soccer extravaganza are described in a 