---
layout: post
title: All-Radio 4.27 Portable Can't Be Removed? Then Your PC is Severely Infected
date: 2018-06-28 00:02:12
tourl: https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/all-radio-427-portable-cant-be-removed-then-your-pc-is-severely-infected/
tags: [Rootkit,Trojan,Source]
---
Starting yesterday, there have been numerous reports of people being infected with something called "All-Radio 4.27 Portable". After researching this heavily today, it has been determined that seeing this program is a symptom of a much bigger problem on your computer.If your computer is suddenly displaying the above program, then your computer is infected with malware that installs rootkits, miners, information-stealing Trojans, and a program that is using your computer to send send out spam.Unfortunately, while some security programs are able to remove parts of the infection, the rootkit component needs manual removal help. Due to this, if you are infected with this malware, I strongly suggest that you Some of the VirusTotal scans associated with this infection have also indicated that an information stealing Trojan could have been installed by this malware bundle as well. Therefore, it is strongly suggested that you change your passwords using a clean machine if you had logged into any accounts while infected.For those interested in more information about the infection, you can read the rest of the article. If you are here because you are infected, be sure to open a This malware campaign appears to have started yesterday when people began While All-Radio 4.27 Portable appears to be a legitimate Russian When malware removal expert, When I checked all of the reported links, I found that supposed cracks were a "aimp" adware bundle. This adware bundle is what is most likely pushing the malware package.From the research conducted by myself, Aura, and The main installer, which is virtual machine aware, will be installed in %AppData%MicrosoftWindows[random][random].exe and will inject a process into Explorer.exe. This process will then copy itself to %Temp%allradio_4.27_portable.exe and display the All-Radio 4.27 Portable screen.It will then download and install various files into the %Temp% folder and execute them. These downloaded files will ultimately install the following malware:According to some of the VirusTotal scans, some of the infections could also be information stealing Trojans. Therefore, if you have logged into any accounts while being infected, you may want to change your password at those accounts from a clean machine.As you can see, this is a serious infection with malware that can potentially steal your account credentials, use your computer for mining, and download other malware on your computer. As it uses a rootkit to protect some of its functions, it indicates that the malware developer means business and we can expect to see this continue to be distributed. Therefore, be sure to clean your computer if you have any of the above symptoms.Finally, cracks have always been a source of malware, especially for consumers. Due to this, it is strongly advised that you avoid cracks and other programs that can generate software licenses as they are commonly infected with malware. 