---
layout: post
title: My Health Record opt-outs tracking at less than 10 percent: Hunt
date: 2018-07-24 11:02:12
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/my-health-record-opt-outs-tracking-at-less-than-10-percent-hunt/
tags: [Law]
---
Australian Health Minister Greg Hunt has revealed that the government was expecting a My Health Record opt-out rate of 10 percent, and so far, from the government's point of view, it is tracking better than that. t t t"We were expecting up to 90 percent would be enrolled, and looks like it will be more than that now," Hunt told 2GB on Tuesday. "So it's actually tracking ahead of our positive expectations." t t tThe minister also said Health's systems have been "working continuously", with a 90 percent success rate on interactions. t t t"What might happen is that people could have a session timeout or an internet dropout or open more than one internet browser window, but if there are issues, the best thing is for anybody to call the number 1800 723 471," Hunt said on problems experienced by users. t t tThe line of argument follows a similar one to the Australian Digital Health Authority (ADHA), which operates the My Health Record system, whicht t t t"There have been some human error issues, with consumers not having the right information to correctly opt out which has slowed down the process for some people. In these instances, people are encouraged to call the My Health Record call centre on 1800 723 471," an ADHA spokesperson told ZDNet. t t tUsers had reported call waiting times of more than two hours on the opening Monday, but according to ADHA'st t tSpeaking to 2GB on Tuesday, Hunt avoided the reported issue of people being unable to opt out with a driver's licence, and needing to use a passport to complete the process. t tYesterday, the federal opposition called on the government tot t"The government has failed to effectively communicate with the public about what the My Health Record is and the potential benefits it could bring," Shadow Minister of Health Catherine King said on Monday. t t"It has also failed to explain to people how their rights will be respected and their privacy protected. t t"This approach has fueled suspicion and scepticism -- which could be why tens of thousands of people rushed to opt out in the first week." t tOn the first day of the opt-out window,t tDespite the legislation behind My Health Record allowing enforcement bodies to warrantlessly access health records to prevent criminal offences, as well as for revenue-raising purposes, the Australian Digital Health Agency and a number of so-called experts have continued to claim access to health records will only be given under a court order. t tDuring Friday, the Singaporean government revealed atIn May, ADHA said that across the trial period of My Health Record involving 1 million people,t tCall waiting times have been reduced, says the digital health record operator, and a spokesperson for the human services minister says systems were not overloaded. t tThe ADHA says it'll refuse access to medical records without a court order or warrant. But the law allows that policy to change at any time. t tAustralian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull says the government's My Health Record won't be sunk by large numbers of people opting out of the system. t tThose choosing to opt-out of the My Health Record service will still have their data visible if they reactivate their account. t tPerhaps more worryingly, the use of privacy controls is sitting under the 0.1 percent mark. t tThe window for Australians to opt out of an electronic health record has been announced by the government. t tThe Australian government's My Health Record data use guidelines require the data governance board to make case-by-case decisions on how the data can be used. t tWhen citizens rush to opt out of an Australian government service, it says something about their levels of trust. When the system falls over under heavy load, it proves them right. t tAustralia's digital health boosters may understand the potential medical benefits, but few seem to understand the potential risks. So let's think about that Singapore health data breach.