---
layout: post
title: Huawei half-year revenue climbs to $48 billion
date: 2018-08-01 01:02:13
tourl: https://www.zdnet.com/article/huawei-half-year-revenue-climbs-to-48-billion/
tags: [Regulations,Source]
---
 tRecent security concerns over Huawei have yet to impact its bottom line, with the Chinese tech giant's revenue growing by 15 percent to 325.7 billion yuan ($47.8 billion) over the first half of 2018. tWhile Huawei has yet to reveal the full numbers for the six-month period, it also reported14 percent growth in its operating margin, saying it anticipates a strong full-year 2018 result. tAcross its carrier business, Huawei said it ist"Ultimately, the shared goal is to help carriers future-proof their businesses by enabling all-cloud networks, connecting more people and things, and building out network infrastructure," Huawei explained. tIn its enterprise segment, Huawei said it will continue delivering IoT, artificial intelligence (AI), big data, cloud, and datacentre services to government and enterprise customers across energy, transportation, finance, and manufacturing in particular. t"By building open ICT platforms, OpenLabs, and platforms for global marketing, training, and services, Huawei is attracting more and more partners, enabling joint innovation, and building an ecosystem around joint customer services," the company added. tDuring 2018, Huawei said it has so far launched EI Intelligent Twins, which enables AI "practical application" across industrial businesses; announced a network cloud server labelled C3ne, which it said improves performance to the tune of tens of millions of packets each second; and received Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) certification for Huawei Cloud, as well as Level 4 Classified Cybersecurity Protection with the Chinese Ministry of Public Security regulations. tLastly, its consumer business saw the company launch thetIDC this week also revealed thattSamsung retained the top global spot, however, shipping 75.1 million units. t tHuawei had in April announced full-yeartThe Chinese networking giant brought in 603.6 billion yuan ($92.5 billion) revenue during the year, up 15.7 percent from 521.6 billion yuan in 2016. tThe use of Huawei technology in telecommunications infrastructure has been facingt tIn response, Huawei's Australia CEO George Huang told ZDNet last month that the companyt t"Huawei doesn't own, doesn't manage, doesn't operate any data," Huang told ZDNet. t"Huawei is just a network equipment vendor to the operators. Operators, they manage, they operate the network. The application of Huawei is to support our customers -- that means operators -- to build the system to manage those things. t"Huawei is just a vendor of the pipeline." tLast month, the United Kingdom's National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) also found severaltHowever, the NCSC overall found Huawei to be providing "unique, world-class cybersecurity expertise". t"Due to areas of concern exposed through the proper functioning of the mitigation strategy and associated oversight mechanisms, the oversight board can provide only limited assurance that all risks to UK national security from Huawei's involvement in the UK's critical networks have been sufficiently mitigated. We are advising the National Security Adviser on this basis," the report said. t"Until this work is completed, the oversight board can offer only limited assurance due to the lack of the required end-to-end traceability from source code examined by HCSEC through to executables use by the UK operators."