title:NDAA markup keeps DISA cuts, ups cyber funding
date:2018-05-13 23:50:17
tourl:https://defensesystems.com/articles/2018/05/10/ndaa-fourth-estate-cyber.aspx
tags:[Cyber Command,DOD,act,bill,CIO,law]
IoT\r         \r         The Army Corps of Engineers is bringing the internet of things to waste disposal, installing 100 sensors in dumpsters at Fort Carson, Colo.\r \r \r \r Enevo's small, battery-powered, sensors will be put in dumpsters and containers where they will daily collect data on the temperature, tilt, and fill levels, providing data feeds that allow officials to avoid overfilled containers, spot trends and make predictions about future waste collection needs.  The company’s cloud-based platform uses advanced analytics and a dynamic scheduling and routing engine to determine truck routing maps that maximize resource efficiency and minimize travel distances.\r \r \r \r Sensor data will be sent over existing, commercial 3G or the Cat M1 IoT cellular infrastructure specifically designed for machine-to-machine communications. The network will be wholly independent of Army Garrison Information Technology networks.\r \r \r \r Enevo will be installing the sensors and providing six months of cellular subscription service, according to an Army sole-source Enevo's sensors and logistics platform have been deployed in 35 countries -- including a pilot program in Kirkland, Wash., where the city used them to decrease garbage pickups at City Hall.\r About the Author\r                     \r                 \r                     Susan Miller is executive editor at GCN.    Over a career spent in tech media, Miller has worked in editorial, print production and online, starting on the copy desk at IDG’s ComputerWorld, moving to print production for Federal Computer Week and later helping launch websites and email newsletter delivery for FCW. After a turn at Virginia’s Center for Innovative Technology, where she worked to promote technology-based economic development, she rejoined what was to become 1105 Media in 2004, eventually managing content and production for all the company's government-focused websites. Miller shifted back to editorial in 2012, when she began working with GCN.    Miller has a BA from West Chester University and an MA in English from the University of Delaware.    Connect with Susan at Sign up for our newsletter. \t\tI agree to this site's People\r         \r         Maj. Gen. Stephen Fogarty has been confirmed as Army Cyber Command’s next commander.\r  \r \r Fogarty has been the chief of staff for U.S. Cyber Command since 2016. Before then, he was the commanding general for the Cyber Center of Excellence and Fort Gordon in Georgia.\r  \r \r Fogarty’s confirmation was quietly and swiftly pushed through the Senate, moving from an April 9 nomination to confirmation by voice vote on April 26. During his confirmation, the Senate also approved Fogarty’s promotion to lieutenant general. A start date hasn’t yet been determined.\r  \r \r Fogarty will replace Lt. Gen. Paul Nakasone, who became the “This change of command is noteworthy because it signifies the elevation of Cyber Command as our 10th combatant command,” Defense Department spokesperson Dana White told reporters during the weekly briefing May 3.\r  \r \r “The cyber domain will define the next century of warfare,\" White said. \"Just as our military must be prepared to defend our nation against hostile acts from land, air and sea, we must also be prepared to deter, and if necessary, respond to hostile acts in cyberspace.”\r About the Author\r                     \r                 \r                       Prior to joining FCW, Williams was the tech reporter for ThinkProgress, where she covered everything from internet culture to national security issues. In past positions, Williams covered health care, politics and crime for various publications, including The Seattle Times.    Williams graduated with a master's in journalism from the University of Maryland, College Park and a bachelor's in dietetics from the University of Delaware. She can be contacted at Sign up for our newsletter. \t\tI agree to this site's IT Infrastructure\r         \r         The Defense Information Systems Agency will close a data center in St. Louis and eliminate, or realign, 140 civilian positions as part of its ongoing effort to squeeze more efficiency out of its IT operations.\r  \r \r In a May 4 statement, the agency said it would also put data centers in San Antonio, Texas, Europe and Bahrain on \"lights dim\" status, reducing staffing at those locations over the next 30 months.\r  \r \r The agency said the closures and personnel moves are a result of its Computing Ecosystem IT optimization campaign. It made the announcements in a May 3 \"all hands\" meetings between headquarters and the staffs of each data center.\r  \r \r \"The announced changes are part of DISA's ongoing efforts reduce the agency's physical footprint and align with federal data center optimization efforts, while continuing to meet evolving DOD mission requirements,\" the agency said in a statement.\r  \r \r DISA expects $695 million in savings over the next decade because of the closures and personnel realignments and anticipates cost reductions from tighter contract requirements for the operations.\r  \r \r DISA finds itself under increasing However, Capitol Hill sources called DISA's Computing Ecosystem announcement part of the agency's normal operational business and said the reductions weren't drastic. Putting the cuts into a larger perspective, DISA has thousands of employees at its headquarters in Fort Meade, Md., and just 30 full time and 13 contractors at its St. Louis office, the source said.\r \r     DISA launched its Computing Ecosystem program in 2017 to unify far-flung computing centers and optimize resources and capabilities across the agency.\r About the Author\r                     \r                 \r                      Before joining FCW, Rockwell was Washington correspondent for Government Security News, where he covered all aspects of homeland security from IT to detection dogs and border security. Over the last 25 years in Washington as a reporter, editor and correspondent, he has covered an increasingly wide array of high-tech issues for publications like Communications Week, Internet Week, Fiber Optics News, tele.com magazine and Wireless Week.  Rockwell received a Jesse H. Neal Award for his work covering telecommunications issues, and is a graduate of James Madison University.  Sign up for our newsletter. \t\tI agree to this site's Congress\r         \r         The House Armed Services Committee conducted its annual slog through hundreds of amendments to come up with a bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act starting in the morning of May 9 and continuing past midnight.\r  \r \r After 14 hours of debate, the committee reported the $716 billion bill, including 248 amendments, favorably on a 60-1 vote. Hawaii Democrat Tulsi Gabbard was the lone holdout.\r  \r \r On the IT front, Rep. Anthony Brown (D-Md.) looked to counter the committee chairman's proposal to trim the Pentagon's \"fourth estate\" -- the defense agencies that provide back office support and services.\r  \r \r Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-Texas) had originally looked to eliminate the Defense Information Systems Agency and the Washington Headquarters Service. The bill proposed by the chairman called for leaving such cuts up to the Department of Defense chief management officer.\r  \r \r Brown's amendment proposed a report from the secretary of defense, the CMO, CIO and others by March 1, 2020 in advance of any consolidation. Brown, concerned with the impact of the potential job loss, said \"It remains unclear what would happen to DISA's missions and functions.\"\r  \r \r Thornberry said it is \"important\" for the committee \"to take a look at those [DOD] agencies that aren't a part of the [services],\" and their growing budgets. DISA's is up 13 percent, he said.\r  \r \r \"I'm a little more prescriptive in that I want to [see] how will this go,\" Thornberry said before opposing the amendment, which the committee declined to adopt.\r  \r \r Some committee members expressed concern about a proposed 25 percent cut to supporting agencies and functions including IT, personnel management and logistics. Additionally, a proposal by Thornberry to eliminate the Test Resource Management Center was voted down.\r \r     Several amendments aimed at improving cyber education and increasing cyber defenses sailed through committee.\r  \r \r Rep. Salud Carbajal's (D-Calif.) amendment to approve the Army National Guard's cyber training pilot program passed. The measure would allow concurrent training of cyber protection teams and cyber network defense teams using a common standard. The program would also integrate training between the guard, law enforcement and emergency personnel.\r  \r \r The amendment would have Army National Guard members embedded with federal and state government departments and agencies to help facilitate cooperative cyber defenses across the government, making training more cohesive and efficient.\r  \r \r Another, championed by Rep. Jimmy Panetta (D-Calif.) would require the acquisition and sustainment undersecretary to brief the committee on the effect of expanding the Hacking for Defense Retired Army Col. Peter Newell, managing partner of consulting firm BMNT Partners told FCW ahead of the markup that the program \"should be an intramural sport in the Army.\"\r  \r \r The 2018 NDAA approved $15 million for the defense secretary to expand Hacking for Defense but the funds weren't appropriated in time, Newell said. This year, he hopes the funding is there to expand its role to more universities.\r  \r \r The HASC also passed a provision allowing the defense secretary to put a cyber institute at each senior military college and offer certificates and degree programs in cyber, data science, and cryptography.\r  \r \r Other measures called for reports on cybersecurity risks to autonomous systems, progress on automated cyber defense capabilities and the use of autonomous intelligence and machine learning in offensive cyber operations.\r About the Author\r                     \r                 \r                       Prior to joining FCW, Williams was the tech reporter for ThinkProgress, where she covered everything from internet culture to national security issues. In past positions, Williams covered health care, politics and crime for various publications, including The Seattle Times.    Williams graduated with a master's in journalism from the University of Maryland, College Park and a bachelor's in dietetics from the University of Delaware. She can be contacted at Sign up for our newsletter. \t\tI agree to this site's 