---
layout: post
title: Windows 10 Insider Build 17723 (Redstone 5) & Build 18204 (Redstone 6) Released. Here's Whats New!
date: 2018-07-26 01:02:10
tourl: https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/microsoft/windows-10-insider-build-17723-redstone-5-and-build-18204-redstone-6-released-heres-whats-new/
tags: [Group]
---
Today Microsoft released Windows 10 Insider Preview Build 17723 (Redstone 5) to insiders in the fast ring and Redstone 6 19H1 Build 18204 to insiders in the skip ahead rings. This is the first Redstone 6 19H1 build released to insiders, but for the most part resolves the same bugs and adds the same features as the Redstone 5 build released today.Both of these builds come with a new Mixed Reality Flashlight feature, improvements to Microsoft Edge, the introduction of Emoji 11, improvements to time functions, improvements to kiosk mode, and an improved update experience.Microsoft added a new tool called Mixed Reality Flashlight that allows you to peer into the real world using a camera attached to your controller. This allows you to quickly see whats happening in the real world without taking off your VR headset.Microsoft created new group policies that allow you to control the behavior of Microsoft Edge.The new policies include enabling/disabling full-screen mode, printing, favorites bar, and saving history; prevent certificate error overrides; configuring the Home button and startup options; setting the New Tab page and Home button URL and managing extensions. Learn more about the XSS Filter has also been retired in favor of Content Security Policies.Unicode 11 comes with 157 emojis and this build allows you to try them out. You can access them using the Emoji Panel (WIN+.) or the touch keyboard. This build includes updates to time related functions by:For a full write up with more details about these new improvements, please see our announcement This update includes an improved Kiosk setup experience. According to the announcement:We have introduced a simplified assigned access configuration page in Settings that allows device administrators to easily set up their PC as a kiosk or digital sign. This new page provides a wizard experience that walks you through the kiosk setup flow including creating a kiosk account that will automatically sign in on device start.In order to improve the update experience so that Windows does not reboot your computer while you are using it and then force you wait to wait for the install the update, Microsoft has been working on predictive models that detect the right time to install a Windows update. These models will not only detect if you are using the computer before restarting, but will also try to predict if you left your computer briefly and are expected to come back to it.