---
layout: post
title: Cisco and Google Tackle Customers’ Biggest Challenges
date: 2018-07-24 13:02:11
tourl: https://blogs.cisco.com/news/cisco-and-google-tackle-customers-biggest-challenges
tags: [Source]
---
tttGreat partnerships help bring simple solutions to complex problems, and Cisco’s partnership with Google Cloud is a great example of what happens when two technology powerhouses work together. The hard work is paying off.  Yesterday, Cisco was proud to accept the Google Cloud Global Technology Partner of the Year Award at Google Cloud’s Next Partner Summit in San Francisco, an event that showcases partners spanning Google Cloud’s portfolio.“Our technology partners are fundamental to providing innovative products to help customers solve their most challenging business problems,” said Nan Boden, Head of Global Technology Partners at Google Cloud. “We’re proud to recognize Cisco as this year’s Global Technology Partner of the Year. We’re delighted to continue building together with Cisco on behalf of customers.”Cisco was also awarded the Innovative Solution in Containers Award. The Cisco Container Platform, While this recognition is a testament to the value we can bring to our customers, the joint hybrid cloud solution was only the start of delivering on Cisco and Google’s common technology vision. This partnership is broad and spans multiple domains to benefit enterprise customers.When Cisco and Google first came together, we started by listening to our customers’ biggest challenges. Customers face obstacles operating across multiple siloed environments, technologies, teams, and vendors. But on top of that, it’s hard for them write applications that move seamlessly between public and private clouds.Applications are the lifeblood of their businesses, and in a digital economy, accelerating innovation in applications is their competitive advantage. In a multicloud world, developers want to be able to securely connect, develop, deploy, and manage their applications in a common way regardless of where the resources are – on – premises or in the cloud.Cisco and Google knew that no one company could solve this alone, so together we tackled the challenge by bringing our customers the best of both worlds—Google Cloud’s speed and scale with Cisco’s enterprise-class networking, security, and compute. This is taking Google’s open Kubernetes and Istio technologies and bringing them on – premises with Cisco HyperFlex and on bare metal so developers can have a modern and consistent environment everywhere.We’ve introduced the new Cisco Container Platform and Kubernetes support for Cisco CloudCenter and AppDynamics, and we’re contributing to the Kubernetes and Istio open source platforms. Together, Cisco and Google Cloud are co-developing a “well-lit” path for customers to migrate to the cloud at their own pace and on their own terms, while also taking advantage of open source technologies.The Cisco Hybrid Platform for Google Cloud – the first GKE certified hybrid platform – will be available next month. Several companies in the early access program have tested it, and we’ve seen tremendous enthusiasm from prospective customers, developers, and joint partners. Developers can engage now in the C  What started with the infrastructure is now moving to the applications.Globally, more than 150 million people rely on Cisco’s Collaboration portfolio to get their jobs done, and many of them are also using G Suite and other Google Cloud Platform services to boost productivity. Now, we’re joining forces on the collaboration front.Today at Google Cloud Next, we Further, at Cisco, we believe artificial intelligence (AI) will dramatically change the way we work, and we are piloting embedding Google AI into the Cisco Contact Center experience. Cisco Contact Center already powers more than 3 million on-premises and cloud customer service agents globally. With this capability, those agents will become faster and more knowledgeable, transforming the way businesses interact with their customers.Many people have asked me why this technology partnership has thrived and moved so fast.  Here’s what I tell them:Stay tuned.  There is much more to come!We'd love to hear from you! To earn points and badges for participating in the conversation, join 