---
layout: post
title: Getting The Most Out of Your Free Trial of Next-Gen Antivirus
date: 2018-07-13 13:02:13
tourl: https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/getting-the-most-out-of-your-free-trial-of-next-gen-antivirus/
tags: [Group,Crowdstrike,Attack]
---
With breaches disclosed almost daily, it can sometimes feel like defending your organization is a hopeless endeavor. Attackers are determined, innovative, and all too often — successful. As stated in the Though organizations seek to upgrade their legacy security, with over 140 vendors all vying for your attention, the endpoint protection market can be a difficult one to navigate. To assist with the solution selection process, many endpoint security companies now offer the opportunity for you to “There’s an old engineering adage that for every hour spent planning, 100 hours of rework are saved following implementation. The same principle applies to free trials. That’s why before you embark on a free trial, it’s critical to have a game plan. The following are basic elements that should be included in your planning process:With a list of requirements, a test environment and a group of key decision-makers, the next step is choosing the right trial. In a crowded marketplace, “Having analyst and independent testing reports can mitigate the risk of succumbing to exaggerated vendor claims, allowing you to narrow your list to only those solutions that have been tested and validated. For more on this aspect of vendor evaluation, check out the blogOnce you’ve established a short list of vendors, signed up for the free trials, created a testing environment and identified a team, it’s time to evaluate the solutions you’ve chosen.Here are some key criteria for evaluating a free trial once it’s underway:Upon completion of the free trial, all the stakeholders should meet to review the experience. Make sure everyone’s concerns get addressed and that the important questions are answered. For example: Did the solution satisfy the organization’s security requirements? Did the trial answer all the questions the team had about the solution? Did it provide full access to all features so the solution can be accurately assessed?  How easy (or difficult) was the solution to deploy and manage?  Once you’ve discussed your experience with using the product, investigated the relevant use cases and compared notes with the entire assessment team, it’s time to make a decision.Keeping your organization safe against an onslaught of sophisticated threats while simultaneously navigating a sea of vendor claims makes choosing the right AV solution challenging at best. However, following the guidelines presented here will help you better prepare for and choose the right free trial in your journey to find the best next-generation AV solution for your organization.CrowdStrike is here to help you because we believe everyone deserves the best endpoint protection. That’s why CrowdStrike offers a free trial that allows you to try, test and learn how our technology stops all attack types, streamlines system performance and empowers your security team. Our free trial provides full access to CrowdStrike Falcon Prevent™ next-generation AV, along with a cloud-based malware lab and a detailed, step-by-step testing and evaluation process where you can test our solution in your own environment. Certified to  "CrowdStrike Falcon continues to amaze us here at SC Labs. This tool looks polished and very…ttttttttttttttttttttt"CrowdStrike understands and articulates the problem of combating sophisticated actors better than anyone."       …tttttttttttttttttttttThe Buyer’s Dilemma It’s no secret that cybersecurity has become a crowded marketplace, particularly in the…tttttttttttttttt