title:The Call for Surge in AI Can Not Ignore Security, Risk
date:2018-05-09 18:55:38
tourl:https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com:443/news/ai-new-technology-still-needs/
tags:[law,attack,DNS,DHS,exploit,NSA,FIREEYE,WhatsApp]
Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Shortly after    The reported deduction differs significantly from the findings of    In stark contrast to the LSOC findings, Corero noticed a spike in distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks around 17 April but said, “Since then, European attacks have remained higher in the second half of the month versus the first half of April and the year as a whole.”  The news that law enforcement agencies had closed down Webstresser.org was a big win for cybercrime fighters. \"But even so, the number of attacks will only decrease temporarily,\" said Onur Cengiz, head of the Link11 security operation center. \"Experience has shown in recent years that for every DDoS attack marketplace taken out, multiple new platforms will pop up like the heads of a hydra.\"  A    According to the Kaspersky Lab DDoS report, Q1 revealed an increased number of DDoS attacks and targets, but there are distinctions among the different attack methods. “Amplified” attacks were beginning to wane but had a bit of a boost in momentum, while network time protocol (NTP) and DNS-based boosting had almost disappeared after most vulnerable services were patched.     DDoS attacks as a means of personal revenge grew more popular in Q1 2018. Also trending were Memcached attacks that resemble a typical DDoS attack; however, according to the Kaspersky report, “Cybercriminals will likely seek out other non-standard amplification methods besides Memcached.”     As server owners patch vulnerabilities, there will be dips in certain types of attacks. “That being the case, DDoS masterminds will likely seek out other amplification methods, one of which could be LDAP services,” the Kaspersky report authors wrote.       \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                  \tTechnology and science in the medical industry was a major focus in the Australian government's 2018-19 Budget, with the government providing AU$106.8 million over four years to modernise Medicare's IT systems.  \tThe funding will also be used to upgrade the systems across the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, aged care, and related payments.  \t\"This measure includes funding for replacing and decommissioning ageing ICT systems, upgrading cybersecurity, and introducing user experience improvements for consumers and providers of health and aged care services,\" the Budget documents said.  \tThe government is also providing AU$28.2 million over five years to upgrade the software system being used to prescribe medicines.  \t\"This measure supports a national electronic prescribing system that will contribute to Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme efficiency, compliance, drug safety, and data collection,\" the government explained.         \t\"The upgrades will make the system more user-friendly and enable prescribers to better identify prescribing options that best meet the needs of their patients, with doctors to retain the final say in advising patients on which medicines to use.\"  \tUnder Improving Access to Medicines: E-prescribing for safer medicines, the Department of Health will get AU$13.7 million in 2018-19, AU$2.8 million in 2019-20, and AU$400,000 in 2020-21; while the Department of Human Services (DHS) gets AU$1.7 million in 2018-19, AU$4.3 million in 2019-20, AU$600,000 in 2020-21, and AU$600,000 in 2021-22.        \tThe government's new 21st Century Medical Industry Growth Plan also gained AU$1.3 billion in funding under the Budget unveiled on Tuesday.  \t\"Tonight we announce a new 21st century medical industry plan to create more jobs in this fast-growing sector of our economy,\" Australian Treasurer Scott Morrison said in his Budget speech.  \t\"Our plan will provide more support for medical research projects, new diagnostic tools, clinical trials of new drugs, scientific collaboration, and development of new medical technologies that can be sold overseas.\"  \tThe plan will ensure Australia is a \"global health industry leader in medical technology, biotechnology, and pharmaceuticals while improving health outcomes for all Australians through investments in medical innovation\", the Budget documents stated.  \tThe funding for the plan was divided into AU$500 million over 10 years for the Genomics Health Futures Mission and AU$707 million to support the Frontier Health and Medical Research program, clinical trials, Biomedtech programs, and Industry Researcher Collaborations.  \tUnder the plan, the government is also looking to spend AU$30 million on enhancing the data sharing and release capabilities of the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare.  \tThe government had also used the 2018-19 Budget to outline its  \tUnder Delivering Australia's Digital Future: Data sharing and release arrangements, AU$20.5 million over four years will be provided to establish a new framework for data sharing in response to the recommendations for an  \tThe framework will be underpinned by legislation and administered by a newly created National Data Commissioner (NDC), with technical guidance and support to be provided by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) to federal agencies on best practices for de-identifying data prior to release.  \t\"A National Data Commissioner will implement and oversee a simpler, safer, and more efficient government data use framework. The National Data Commissioner will be the trusted overseer of the Government data system, responsible for proactively monitoring the integrity of the system and engaging with the community,\" the Budget papers said.  \t\"The NDC will be responsible for developing guidance on data sharing arrangements; monitoring and addressing risks and ethical considerations on data use; and managing the process for high-value datasets.\"  It’s finally time for the federal government to submit a proposal for raising Russia’s retirement age, acting Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev told the State Duma on Tuesday, pointing out that the country’s current system was established in the 1930s. “Life in this country has changed substantially since then, of course for the better,” Medvedev Today, men in Russia can receive state pensions at 60 and women can retire at 55. Despite repeated warnings from state officials over the years that the country’s current pension program is unsustainable, the government has refused to entertain the idea of raising the retirement age. Beginning last year, the government started gradually increasing the pension age for civil servants and the minimum amount of employee tenure needed to claim a pension.                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 At    CSIT, the UK’s lead university center for commercialization of cybersecurity research, is housed at Queen’s University’s Institute of Electronics, Communications and Information Technology, and was recently selected by the    The announced jobs range from graduate level to principal engineer, and will focus on creating industry-viable products to reduce cyber-attacks and make networks more resilient.     Speaking at the event, director of CSIT Dr Godfrey Gaston said: “The cybersecurity industry in Northern Ireland is growing rapidly and we are pleased to be recruiting 10 new research and engineering staff, who will make a positive impact across the globe, ensuring that networks are more resilient and less likely to be attacked. It is also a welcome boost for the local economy in Northern Ireland.     “At CSIT, our experts work closely with many high profile partners to shape and direct the research agenda and ensure that there is strong commercial and societal impact. With graduate level jobs to principal engineer, we are helping to develop the next generation of industry leaders to address the widespread demand for cybersecurity professionals and technologies.” \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 UK small businesses are up to 20 times more likely to suffer damaging data breaches than their larger counterparts, according to new data from   The dark web intelligence firm crawls the non-indexed web searching for customers’ data, and in so doing identifies when sensitive information has been stolen and put up for sale.     It found 5-20 times the number of breaches coming from smaller firms, although they are often not publicized because of the lower profile of these organizations, the vendor claimed.     “Smaller companies make easier targets because they don't have the resources to effectively defend themselves. Most attacks are automated, so it makes little difference to an attacker if they steal 1,000 personal data records from 100 smaller companies, or if they steal 100,000 personal data records from one company,” explained Terbium Labs CEO, Danny Rogers.     “UK small and medium sized businesses just don't have the volume to absorb a big data breach event, and it can cause so much damage that entire businesses can be destroyed. At the same time, these organizations have far fewer resources, not to mention much more limited data sets, to combat the problem. Currently, they’re sitting ducks.”     Nearly half (47%) of small businesses have experienced a breach or cyber-attack in the past 12 months, according to    Although spending on cybersecurity is higher as a percentage of total spend than other sized companies (33%), just 31% of micro-businesses and 39% of small firms said they have dedicated staff to deal with attacks, according to the government. This is versus 62% of medium and 76% of large businesses.     What’s more, just 39% of small businesses have formal security policies in place, versus 59% of medium and 74% of large firms.     According to the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB), Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Total reported cybercrime losses dropped slightly last year to just over $1.4bn, with ransomware reports falling sharply, according to the latest annual stats from the   The IC3 “People are losing their confidence in government and law enforcement agencies to protect them from cyber-criminals,” argued    However   The top money-earner from 2017 was BEC, netting the black hats over $675m from 15,690 complaints, an average pay-out of over $43,000 per attack.     The next most lucrative attack types of 2017 were confidence/romance fraud ($211m) and non-payment/non delivery ($141m).     The latter also topped the top three most popular attacks, with the FBI receiving over 84,000 complaints last year, followed by personal data breaches (30,904) and phishing (25,344).        Perhaps unsurprisingly, the over 60s represent the most frequently targeted age group (49,523) and those suffering the biggest cumulative losses ($343m).     Outside the US, the top victim countries were Canada (3164 cases), India (2819) and the UK (1383).    \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Microsoft has patched over 60 vulnerabilities in this month’s security update round including two being actively exploited in the wild.     There are a total of 21 critical CVEs to patch in May, one of which,    Microsoft explained further in an    “An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could gain the same user rights as the current user. If the current user is logged on with administrative user rights, an attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could take control of an affected system. An attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights.”     Hackers could trick users into visiting a compromised site, or one featuring malicious ads, or else attackers could exploit the vulnerability through an embedded ActiveX application, or specially crafted Office documents that host the IE rendering engine.     If an attacker can’t gain privileged access, they could exploit an elevation of privilege bug such as the other CVE being exploited in the wild:    “This vulnerability allows an attacker who is logged onto a system to run a specially crafted file to gain privileged access to the system,” explained    There are also two public disclosures this month, meaning there’s enough info out there on how the vulnerabilities work that attackers could create exploits before firms have a chance to update their systems.     This month’s releases also contain an out-of-band patch for“A malicious container could allow an attacker to execute arbitrary code on any system installing (or ‘pulling’) the container,” explainedAdobe also patched a  \t \tAvast has reduced the price of its shares ahead of the firm's Initial Public Offering (IPO), an event expected to become one of the UK's largest tech-related IPOs.  \tAs  \tFounded in 1988,  \tWhile headquartered in the Czech Republic, Avast has offices worldwide including in the US, UK, Canada, Russia, and Japan.  \tThe cybersecurity firm claims to prevent up to two billion attacks per month and offers cybersecurity solutions under the AVG brand.         \t Avast hopes to sell approximately 25 percent of its stock with the overall aim of raising up to $200 million.  \t The company is  \t Avast is 46-percent owned by founders Pavel Baudis and Eduard Kucera, while CVC Capital Partners accounts for 29 percent, and Summit Partners holds 7 percent.  \t \t The IPO is expected to take place on Thursday. Based on the new market guidance, Avast may achieve a market capitalization of between $3.38 billion and $3.65 billion once listed, as noted by the publication.  \t Avast had  \t\tThe distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) which knocked KrebsOnSecurity offline for days cost owners of devices unwittingly involved in the attack upwards of $300,000, researchers suggest. \tThe DDoS attack took place in 2016 and was made possible through the Mirai botnet, a network of enslaved Internet of Things (IoT) devices including routers, surveillance cameras, and smart home systems. \tNon-existent or poor security practices, including the use of hardcoded and factory passwords, allowed the operators of the botnet to scour the web for the means to hook up and enslave these devices, providing the bandwidth necessary to launch an attack able to smash the KrebsOnSecurity domain and prevent legitimate traffic from getting through. \tThe access disruption was an annoyance for visitors and a \tThe cost of the attack to the cloud security provider in fending off the 620 Gbps DDoS assault, which could have eventually reached millions of dollars, led to Google's Project Shield \tHowever, there was another cost and not one that would necessarily be immediately apparent --the owners of devices enslaved by Mirai were the ones paying for the threat actor's power usage and bandwidth consumption in launching the DDoS attack. \tAccording to a new study into the direct cost of such IoT-fueled attacks by researchers from the University of California, Berkeley School of Information, \tThe attack lasted 77 hours and was powered by 24,000 insecure IoT devices, which was \tBerkeley researchers based their estimates on devices tested with a sandboxed version of Mirai. The DDoS onslaught cost device owners an average of $0.42 per hour in power, based on the distribution of devices in low, medium, and high-cost electricity zones. \tThe cost of bandwidth was more difficult to estimate, owing to low, medium, and high-cost zones, in addition to Wi-Fi and Ethernet options. However, as an aggregated amount, Berkeley researchers believe the Mirai-fueled DDoS attack cost $4,207.03 per hour. \tOn average, each device involved in the attack is estimated to have cost individual owners $13.50 per product. \t\"The attacker who wanted to clobber my site paid a few hundred dollars to rent a tiny portion of a much bigger Mirai crime machine,\" Krebs noted. \"That attack would likely have cost millions of dollars to mitigate. The consumers in possession of the IoT devices that did the attacking probably realized a few dollars in losses each, if that.\" \t\"Perhaps forever unmeasured are the many Web sites and Internet users whose connection speeds are often collateral damage in DDoS attacks,\" the security expert added. \t\tThis may be unnoticeable to many especially when there are no bandwidth caps in place, but the operating costs of fending off Mirai attacks and similar botnets can be crippling to individual businesses, cloud services, and the enterprise at large. \t Microsoft's Patch Tuesday update addresses a critical flaw in the Windows VBScript engine that attackers are using to compromise Windows machines through Internet Explorer.  The patch follows an alarm by researchers at Qihoo 360 Core Security The IE attack, dubbed 'Double Kill', was delivered via Office documents that open a malicious webpage in the background.  In Microsoft hasn't confirmed this is the bug reported by Qihoo 360 Core Security but notes the flaw is being exploited in the wild.  \"In a web-based attack scenario, an attacker could host a specially crafted website that is designed to exploit the vulnerability through Internet Explorer and then convince a user to view the website,\" Microsoft notes.        \"An attacker could also embed an ActiveX control marked 'safe for initialization' in an application or Microsoft Office document that hosts the IE rendering engine.\" Observed attacks have started with a malicious Word document, which when opened downloads an exploit written in VBScript that's hosted on a webpage, The analysts are also confident the exploit they found is the same as the Double Kill attack Qihoo 360 Core Security reported.  While the zero-day attacks are likely to be the work of state-sponsored attackers, Kaspersky Lab predicts it will become popular with cybercriminals as part of an exploit kit's arsenal for compromising Windows PCs in web-based attacks. That's because the technique allows an attacker to force IE to load and exploit the flaw on an unpatched machine even if victims have set Chrome or Firefox as the default browser. \"Despite a Word document being the initial attack vector, the vulnerability is actually in VBScript, not in Microsoft Word. This is the first time we've seen a URL moniker used to load an IE exploit, and we believe this technique will be used heavily by malware authors in the future. This technique allows one to load and render a web page using the IE engine, even if the default browser on a victim's machine is set to something different,\" the analysts said.  \"We expect this vulnerability to become one of the most exploited in the near future, as it won't be long until exploit kit authors start abusing it in both drive-by via browser and spear-phishing via document campaigns.\" The other vulnerability Microsoft has confirmed is currently being exploited is a Win32k elevation of privilege vulnerability, which is tracked as CVE-2018-8120 and rated as important. \"To exploit this vulnerability, an attacker would first have to log on to the system. An attacker could then run a specially crafted application that could exploit the vulnerability and take control of an affected system,\" Microsoft notes.  Microsoft also got around to Microsoft patched a total of 67 vulnerabilities in the May Patch Tuesday update, of which 21 are rated as critical.  Microsoft is being urged to rush out a patch for a bug in Internet Explorer that's being used in attacks. Google denies multiple requests by Microsoft for an extension to Project Zero's 90-day disclose-or-fix deadline. Microsoft misses Google's 90-day deadline, so Google has published details of an exploit mitigation bypass. For the second time in a week, Google reveals another unpatched Windows 10 vulnerability.             Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Speaking at    He argued that “we are retrofitting security onto an infrastructure that is fundamentally insecure, and was not built with security in mind. The internet was built in a great utopian, engineering vision and it wasn’t built with the idea that people would do things with it.”     We are desperately trying to retrofit security and a lot of people are getting a lot of commercial benefit from that, he said.     “I think the real challenge is to make sure we don’t repeat those mistakes in the future. How do we do the researching now and build the security now to make sure that people don’t look back in 20 years’ time and say that when the IoT explosion happened we hadn’t thought about security?” he asked.     Hannigan said we could amplify the problem we’ve already got by dumping billions of new processes into the network without any care for security.     There is still plenty to do in research, he added, and there is a need to “take some of the responsibility away from the individual. It’s not that individuals don’t need to care about it, but we’ve got to get the right balance between what can be built into hardware security” so we can take away from the individual a lot of the worries about that.     “There’s never been a more exciting time to be doing research in this area, and for that reason there is an opportunity here to get the future right in a way that the past wasn’t,” he concluded. \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 At    The Centre, which will be hosted and run by Plexal with support from    “The mission for the London Cyber Innovation Centre is to build the UK’s international profile in cybersecurity,” Cockerton said, and “to ensure British infosec businesses have clients and investments here in the UK, and also have opportunities to expand their market share in other countries.”     The Centre will aim to place its members at the forefront of technology innovation, ensuring SMBs and businesses alike can protect and prepare themselves for the ever-changing threats of the digital age, she added.     “We aim to be a combining force within the infosec community,” Cockerton said, and “our vision is to provide access points for everyone.”     The UK has always had a world-class reputation for invention, she concluded, but now we have “reputational concerns on our hands as we make our way outside of the EU and define what we want to be as an economy and as a nation. For Plexal and our partners, CSIT and Deloitte, the London Cyber Innovation Centre is an essential initiative to get right.” \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                                      Gang behind malware make money from fraudulent apps -- but if they choose to use their reach for theft, corporations could be put at risk.                                           Malware has reappeared in Google Play, the official Android app marketplace, after previously being identified and removed. Uncovered by researchers at Symantec, the malware was bundled inside at least seven different apps. The apps were listed as emoji keyboard additions, space cleaners, calculators, app lockers, and call recorders, but none actually performed the advertised functions, and only existed to serve up malware in the form of adware to drive clicks for illicit profit. The malware has previously appeared in the Play Store, before being removed after Google was alerted to its presence. However, the same malicious code reappeared in the official Android market place again, but with apps featuring slightly different names under the banner of a new publisher. In order to help the apps slip past Google Play security, the malware is configured to wait four hours before starting the malicious activity. This also helps lure the user into a false sense of security about the app, so even if they notice the device acting suspiciously, they might not attribute this to the recently installed application.        Following activation, the malware looks to consolidate its position on the device by asking for administrator privileges in order to carry out its activity and make it more difficult for the app to be removed. In order for the request to look convincing, the attackers use an official Google Play icon when asking for administrator privileges.  The malware using Google imagery to ask for admin rights.The goal of the malware is to deliver adware, browsers are also forced to repeatedly open scam pages featuring fake 'you won' notifications which when clicked deliver profit to the attackers. ZDNet has approached Google for comment on how the apps were allowed to enter the Play Store after being previously identified as malware, but hasn't received a response at the time of writing. Researchers at Symantec have also identified a further 38 malicious apps which entered the Google Play store for the first time in December. The apps claim to be games and education apps, but don't really have the functions they promise to provide. Instead, they forcibly redirect users to install another app from the Play Store called 'Change My Voice' which does have some functionality and also displays lots of adverts -- once again used to drive click-based revenue. At least 10,000 users in US, UK, South Africa, India, Japan, Egypt, Germany, Netherlands, and Sweden downloaded this malware before it was removed from the Play Store after Symantec informed Google. In order to remain protected against Android malware, researchers recommend keeping software up-to-date and to pay close attention to permissions requested by apps, especially unfamiliar or unusual ones. A recent report by Google said the company However, with a large userbase, even a small percentage of malicious apps slipping through the net could result in millions of devices inadvertently being compromised.  US deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein charges nine Iranian hackers with cyber crimes in March 2018. (Image: file photo)  Iran is likely to respond with cyberattacks against Western businesses in response to the Trump administration's withdrawal from the nuclear deal, cybersecurity experts say.  Research out Wednesday suggests attacks could come \"within months, if not faster,\" according to security firm Recorded Future.  The research paints a detailed picture of how Iran uses contractors and universities to staff its offensive cybersecurity operations -- or hacking efforts -- against foreign targets. A former insider with knowledge of Iran's hacking operations said the attacks are likely to be launched by contractors and thus pose a greater risk of spinning out of control.  On Tuesday, President Donald Trump announced the US would Although there has been no evidence or intelligence to suggest a cyberattack is in the works, researchers say they predict, based on Iran's  \"We assess that within months, if not sooner, American companies in the financial, critical infrastructure, oil, and energy sectors will likely face aggressive and destructive cyberattacks by Iranian state-sponsored actors,\" said Priscilla Moriuchi, a former NSA analyst, now at Recorded Future.        \"The Islamic Republic may utilize contractors that are less politically and ideologically reliable -- and trusted -- and as a result, could be more difficult to control,\" she said.  Countries allied  Levi Gundert, who co-authored the research, told Much of the research is centered on Iran's long-known history of targeting Western businesses and governments with cyberattacks  Tehran began strengthening its cyber capabilities following the Green Revolution, a period of intense protests in Iran against the incumbent government during the Arab Spring in 2009.  The government responded with a heavy crackdown, with an increased focus on cyber operations.  But some of the best hackers available were primarily young and financially driven, said the report. This led to mistrust and fears that the hackers could be bought by foreign intelligence agencies.  According to the former insider, that led to a tiered trust system that centered Tehran's hacking efforts around a central team of trusted and ideologically aligned middle management that dishes out assignments to contractors -- often pitting teams against each other -- who get paid only when the work is completed. The government also uses compartmentalization -- giving one team an infiltration mission and using another to launch a remote code execution attack.  It's estimated that at least 50 organizations are competing for government hacking work, the research said, including contractors and universities to conduct hacking operations.  One such institution, Imam Hossein University, was  But because some of Iran's best operators \"are not always the most devout or loyal to the regime,\" the researchers warn they \"could be more difficult to control.\" That may lead to the IRGC choosing a less ideologically driven contractor, capable of delivering a destructive attack in a short period of time, instead of a trusted and less politically driven contractor.  \"It is possible that this dynamic could limit the ability of the government to control the scope and scale of these destructive attacks once they are unleashed,\" the researchers said.  Recorded Future isn't the only company warning of incoming Tehran-backed cyberattacks.  Security firm FireEye warned that Iranian hackers were \"probing Western critical infrastructure in multiple industries for future attack.\"  \"These efforts did not entirely disappear with the agreement, but they did refocus on Iran's neighbors in the Middle East,\" said John Hultquist, FireEye's director of intelligence analysis, in an email to  \"With the dissolution of the agreement, we anticipate that Iranian cyberattacks will once again threaten Western critical infrastructure,\" he said.                      Zack Whittaker can be reached securely on Signal and WhatsApp at 646-755–8849, and his PGP fingerprint for email is: 4D0E 92F2 E36A EC51 DAAE 5D97 CB8C 15FA EB6C EEA5.                                           Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 Many organizations, including the likes of Panera, UnderArmour, Delta and Sears, have suffered the consequences of a \"golden child\" app that runs wild. They all have experienced high-value web-app attacks.  A new study released by Arxan, The study of nearly 1,400 IT and IT security practitioners across the US, EU and APAC indicates that effective app visibility to stop attacks is still lacking and that the motivator for improved app protection comes after the damage is done – loss of productivity, customer trust and revenue.   It's loss, not prevention, that continues to drive investment in application security. As application breaches continue to rise, so do the security risks of running business-critical apps in zero-trust environments.  The majority of organizations (75%) that participated in the study reported that they likely, most likely or definitely experienced a material cyber-attack or data breach within the last year due to a compromised application. More than half (54%) of respondents expect to see a significant increase in threats in 2018, and 64% of respondents are concerned that they will be hacked through an application.   “This is a big deal, it’s not pocket change. The average data breach costs almost $4 million when you include lost customers, the impact to operations, and your insurance costs going up,” said Rusty Carter, vice president of product management, Arxan. “Companies have to change the way they think about investing in app security because threats are only getting worse.”  Despite the anticipation of increased risk, only 25% of respondents report making significant investment in solutions to prevent application attacks, likely because 48% of respondents believe that app performance and speed are more important than security.   The findings in this study points to two struggles companies have faced for some time. \"Giving organizations the visibility into the security posture of their deployed applications allows them to optimize their security and customer experience,\" said Carter. \"Yet security professionals lack an awareness about the status of their app's security.\"   As a result, \"they will be ineffective at responding to attacks before they lead to full-blown breaches,\" said Carter.  \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 Cookies enable us to provide the best experience possible and help us understand how visitors use our website. By browsing Infosecurity Magazine, you agree to our use of cookies.\r                 When it comes to technology, the old adage \"if it ain't broke, don't fix it\" won't fly. Technology can and will eventually break, and AI technology is no exception. AI is gaining popularity, but advancements for the sake of keeping up in the global marketplace won't ensure that the technology is secure or well utilized.  \"By the Trump administration’s own estimate, the U.S. government spent more than $2 billion in unclassified programs alone during the 2017 fiscal year to research and develop AI technology, according to data furnished this week by the White House’s Office of Science and Technology Policy,\" the With the proliferation of interconnected devices, AI technology has become mainstream, with more and more vendors racing to adopt the technology as their solution, but there are dangers of early AI.  In recent days, the facial recognition technology used by And there are growing concerns about the       While advancement in AI is important and it might be fun to build products, Itsik Mantin, director of security research, Imperva Defense Center, said it's necessary to adopt a hacker's way of thinking in order to build secure solutions.  In an 8 May blog post, \"Calling upon his experiences over the last four years in which he worked on several research projects aimed at incorporating AI technology into products, Mantin said, \"The most significant challenge we had to cope with was making sure that our use of AI worked safely in adversarial settings.  \"In its early days, the community talks innovation and opportunity, expectations and excitement couldn’t be higher. Then comes disillusionment. Once security researchers find ways to make the system do things it wasn’t supposed to, in particular, if the drops of vulnerabilities turn into a flood, the excitement is replaced with FUD – fear, uncertainty and doubt around the risk associated with the new technology,\" Mantin wrote.     \r                     \r                 \r \r                 \r \r                 