---
layout: post
title: Endpoint Protection and Threat Intelligence: The Way Forward [VIDEO]
date: 2018-08-06 13:02:14
tourl: https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/how-crowdstrike-integrates-threat-intelligence-with-endpoint-protection/
tags: [Crowdstrike,Falcon X,Attack]
---
I’m excited to tell you about CrowdStrike’s 2018 Summer Release, in particular, how we’ve expanded our automated threat intelligence solution, Falcon X™, adding more contextualized and tailored threat intelligence capabilities than ever before. I’m also very proud of the fact that CrowdStrikeIn this video, I discuss the importance of automating threat intelligence and its role in ensuring proactive cybersecurity that can actually prevent and predict future attacks, helping our customers stay one step ahead of the adversary. By baking-in threat intelligence, as well as our automated malware analysis, our customers are given a much more complete picture of what is happening across their endpoints, what’s been prevented and more importantly, who is behind the attack. In fact, this adversary-centric approach is why Falcon X is able to deliver threat intelligence that allows CrowdStrike to associate the adversary activity observed globally, with what is seen on our customers’ endpoints or in malware, and track that back to known threat actors. In addition, the level of automated threat intelligence Falcon X provides dramatically speeds triage and remediation — literally, cutting it from hours to minutes.The ability for a customer to actually predict and therefore, prevent, a future attack is a tremendous game-changer in our industry and it is why we focused so much on building the best intelligence team on the planet.  We knew from the beginning that automating and integrating threat intelligence with endpoint protection was going to profoundly transform cybersecurity and more importantly, protect our customers on a global scale. The fact that we can now offer our vision as a reality is an accomplishment of immense proportions. This continued expansion of the Falcon platform highlights how CrowdStrike delivers in every functional area of the It’s also very gratifying to know that the predictive capabilities delivered by Falcon X automated threat intelligence can benefit any size organization, from the largest enterprise with its own 24/7 security operations centers (SOCs) to small and mid-sized companies that don’t have dedicated SOCs. With Falcon X, any organization can elevate its security posture instantly.If you’re at Co-founder of CrowdStrike, Kurtz is an internationally recognized security expert, author, entrepreneur, and speaker. He has been part of the security community for more than 20 years including leadership roles at McAfee and as the brains behind Foundstone. He also authored the best-selling security book of all time, Hacking Exposed: Network Security SecretsSolutions.tttttttttWhat is The CrowdStrike Foundation? Cybersecurity is not just a job, it’s a calling, a passion…tttttttttttttttttttttThe idea that cybersecurity is a board-level concern is not new. Private sector companies and their…tttttttttttttttttttttThis article was originally published on The Australian Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) cyber adversaries represent…tttttttttttttttt