---
layout: post
title: Andy OS Android Emulator Reportedly Installing a GPU Miner
date: 2018-06-18 00:02:10
tourl: https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/andy-os-android-emulator-reportedly-installing-a-gpu-miner/
tags: [Trojan,Group]
---
It has been reported that a GPU Miner Trojan is being installed along with the popular Andy Android emulator and its users are rightfully concerned. This miner reportedly will use the graphics processing unit, or GPU, on the computer's graphic's card in order to mine cryptocurrency.In a post What is concerning is that the Reddit poster has stated that he has tried to bring this up to the team via the Facebook user group numerous times and has been repeatedly kicked out each time. When I downloaded and tested the According to VirusTotal, the Andy installer is When testing the current Andy installer, I was presented with offers for Avast, the Even after declining all of these offers, a program was still installed on my test computer. Guess what? It was a file called C:Program Files (x86)Updaterupdater.exe. For me, though, the program just generated an error when it was executed.If this file is indeed a GPU miner, I could be receiving this error because I am running it on a virtual machine that does not have a dedicated graphics card on it. When scanning it using The updater.exe file posted by the Reddit, though, is clearly When testing the Andy installer using the sandbox site Any.Run, you This GoogleUpdate.exe program has a description of "AndyOS Update", which indicates it's part of Andy. Why it is named GoogleUpdate is not known, but I feel it is strange.Furthermore, the GoogleUpdate.exe file is code signed by "Andy OS Inc". This indicates that the file belongs to Andy OS Inc or at least was intentionally signed by them.Finally the signature further indicates that it belong to Andy OS Inc.As the GoogleUpdate.exe is signed using a signature that is owned by Andy OS Inc, it would indicate that this file it one that belongs to them.While Bleeping Computer has not been able to corroborate that Andy is installing Miners onto user's computers, we could confirm that it is creating an Updater.exe executable as described by the Reddit user's post. For now, it is advised that users do not install Andy until further information is given by the Andy developers.Below is the video created by TopWire that demonstrates what he saw when installing Andy.Bleeping Computer has reached out to both the marketing contact and support contacts at Andy OS for comment, but have not heard back at the time of this publication.