---
layout: post
title: Introducing: Malwarebytes Browser Extension July 26, 2018 - Malwarebytes Browser Extensions (BETA) are available in the official web stores for Chrome and Firefox. Read what they can do for you, and try one out, if you haven't already.CONTINUE READING
date: 2018-07-26 13:02:11
tourl: https://blog.malwarebytes.com/malwarebytes-news/betas/2018/07/introducing-malwarebytes-browser-extension/
tags: [Browser Extensions]
---
Are you tired of all the unwanted content the world wide web offers up, whether you like it or not? It is our privilege to introduce you to the Malwarebytes Browser Extension (BETA). Or, better said, the Malwarebytes Browser Extensions, because we have one for Firefox and one for Chrome.Malwarebytes Browser Extension delivers a safer and faster web browsing experience. It blocks malicious websites and filters out unwanted content (resulting in up to three times faster webpage load times). The filtering is not based on definitions, so the extensions can block previously-unidentified fake tech support scams and their tactics.What will it do for your browsing experience? It prevents pop-ups, browser hijackers, and Speaking of behavior patterns, our browser extension is the first that heuristically identifies and This is where Malwarebytes Browser Extension can help you:And these are the features it has to offer:The Chrome extension can be downloaded from Google’s Installing the extension is pretty easy. Just follow the prompts when you click “ADD TO CHROME” in the webstore.Confirm that you want to add the Chrome extension And you should see this prompt when the install is complete.To double-check whether the installation was successful, you can check under Settings (use the icon that looks like three vertical dots)More ToolsExtensions. You should find this entry:The Firefox extension can be downloaded from the official Click “Add” to confirm that you want to install the Firefox add-on.And you should see this confirmation:To double-check whether the installation was successful, you can check under the Menu icon (otherwise known as a hamburger, which looks like three horizontal bars). Look for “Add-ons,” and you should find this entry:In both Chrome and Firefox, you can make adjustments to the settings of Malwarebytes Browser Extension for more granular control. To reach the settings menu, click the blue Malwarebytes logo in the browsers’ menu bar. This will show you the current protection status and two additional links.To enable or disable individual protection features, click the “Settings” link in that prompt. This will show you a menu:Here, you can also find information about what each protection mode guards against.Under the “Allow List” tab, you can allow individual domains and IPs manually (in case we block something that you don’t want to be blocked). You can remove them from the list as well, if you change your mind.Under the “About” tab, you can check the version information and, importantly, allow the telemetry from the Browser Extension to be sent to us anonymously. This will help the researchers I mentioned earlier to assess whether a domain or IP should be blocked permanently.When the browser extensions block a site, they will show you a warning similar to this one:The dangers are classified along the lines of the major risks that a web browser might run into:The “blocked” page will offer a short explanation of these risks in the upper drop-down menu.Why, yes, it is! So, you are using it at your own risk. Suffice it to say that both extensions have been downloaded thousands of times, and most complaints so far have been about We hope to be able to announce the full, official version of the Malwarebytes Browser Extension soon!Give the Malwarebytes Browser Extensions a whirl, and stay safe out there!